Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  Overview  Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. is a global manufacturer and supplier of discrete semiconductors and passive electronic components, including power MOSFETs, power integrated circuits, transistors, diodes, optoelectronic components, resistors, capacitors, and inductors. Discrete semiconductors and passive electronic components manufactured by Vishay are used in virtually all types of electronic products, including those in the industrial, computer, automotive, consumer electronic products, telecommunications, power supplies, military/aerospace, and medical industries.  On July 6, 2010, we completed the spin-off of Vishay Precision Group, Inc. (VPG) through a tax-free stock dividend to our stockholders. Our common stockholders received 1 share of VPG common stock for every 14 shares of Vishay common stock they held on the record date, June 25, 2010, and our Class B common stockholders received 1 share of VPG Class B common stock for every 14 shares of Vishay Class B common stock they held on the record date. Until July 6, 2010, VPG was part of Vishay and its results of operations and cash flows are included in the balances reported in the accompanying consolidated condensed financial statements for periods prior to the spin-off. Prior to the completion of the spin-off of VPG, we operated in six product segments, MOSFETs, Diodes, Optoelectronic Components, Resistors & Inductors, Capacitors, and Vishay Precision Group. Following the spin-off we operate in five product segments.  On June 4, 2011, Dr. Felix Zandman, our founder and Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Technical Officer, and Chief Business Development Officer, passed away. Dr. Zandman will never be forgotten as his legacy will live on across the world throughout all Vishay employees. We will continue to implement the vision, strategy, and culture articulated by Dr. Zandman as we continue to work tirelessly to enhance value for our stockholders. In accordance with our succession plan, Marc Zandman was elected as Executive Chairman of the Board. Marc Zandman also succeeded Dr. Zandman as our Chief Business Development Officer. Dr. Gerald Paul will continue leading Vishay as our President and Chief Executive Officer. Since 1985, we have pursued a business strategy of growth through acquisitions and focused research and development. Through this strategy, we have grown to become one of the worlds largest manufacturers of discrete semiconductors and passive electronic components. We expect to continue our strategy of acquisitions while also maintaining a prudent capital structure.  We are focused on enhancing stockholder value by buying back our stock and improving earnings per share. In the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010 and second fiscal quarter of 2011, we completed the repurchase of 21.7 million shares of our common stock for $275 million and 8.6 million shares of our common stock for $150 million, respectively. Our credit facility presently precludes us from executing additional stock repurchases. Beginning in 2012, our capacity to repurchase shares of stock will increase each quarter by an amount equal to 20% of net income. Our business and operating results have been and will continue to be impacted by worldwide economic conditions. Our revenues are dependent on end markets that are impacted by consumer and industrial demand, and our operating results can be adversely affected by reduced demand in those global markets. For several years, we implemented aggressive cost reduction programs. We continue to monitor the current environment and its potential effects on our customers and the end markets that we serve. Additionally, we continue to closely monitor our costs, inventory, and capital resources to respond to changing conditions and to ensure we have the management, business processes, and resources to meet our future needs. See additional information regarding our competitive strengths and key challenges as disclosed in Part 1 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( the SEC) on February 25, 2011.  We utilize several financial metrics, including net revenues, gross profit margin, segment operating income, end-of-period backlog, book-to-bill ratio, inventory turnover, change in average selling prices, net cash and short-term investments (debt), and free cash generation to evaluate the performance and assess the future direction of our business. (See further discussion in Financial Metrics and Financial Condition, Liquidity, and Capital Resources.) The improved economic conditions that we continue to experience have stabilized overall demand for our products at a high level and have resulted in stability in nearly all key financial metrics compared with the prior year period. 31 Net revenues for the fiscal quarter ended July 2, 2011 were $709.8 million, compared to $701.7 million for the fiscal quarter ended July 3, 2010. The net earnings attributable to Vishay stockholders for the fiscal quarter ended July 2, 2011 were $82.1 million, or $0.48 per diluted share, compared to $76.7 million, or $0.40 per diluted share for the fiscal quarter ended July 3, 2010.  Net revenues for the six fiscal months ended July 2, 2011 were $1,405.0 million, compared to $1,342.1 million for the six fiscal months ended July 3, 2010. The net earnings attributable to Vishay stockholders for the six fiscal months ended July 2, 2011 were $157.4 million, or $0.91 per diluted share, compared to $122.1 million, or $0.63 per diluted share for the six fiscal months ended July 3, 2010.  The results of operations for the fiscal quarter and the six fiscal months ended July 2, 2011 include a pretax charge of $3.9 million to accelerate the recognition of certain executive compensation upon the death of Dr. Zandman. The results of operations for the six fiscal months ended July 2, 2011 also include $10.0 million of one-time tax expense related to the write-down of deferred tax assets in Israel to reflect the lower corporate income tax rate enacted in January 2011 on certain types of income earned after December 31, 2010. The reconciliation below includes certain financial measures which are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), including adjusted net earnings and adjusted net earnings per share. These non-GAAP measures should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance. Non-GAAP measures such as adjusted net earnings and adjusted net earnings per share do not have uniform definitions. These measures, as calculated by Vishay, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Management believes that these measures are meaningful because they provide insight with respect to our intrinsic operating results. Reconciling items to arrive at adjusted net earnings represent significant charges or credits that are important to understanding our intrinsic operations. There were no such reconciling items for the fiscal quarter and six fiscal months ended July 3, 2010. The items affecting comparability are (in thousands, except per share amounts):   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  * Includes add-back of interest on exchangeable notes in periods where the notes are dilutive. Our results for the fiscal quarter and six fiscal months ended July 2, 2011 represent the continuation of a favorable business environment with sales normalizing at pre-global economic recession levels and the effects of the cost reductions initiated in the prior years enabling us to achieve significantly higher earnings than before the beginning of the global economic recession at the same sales volume. Our results for the fiscal quarter and six fiscal months ended July 3, 2010 represent the acceleration of the upturn of our business due to increased overall demand for electronic components over previous periods and the effects of the cost reductions initiated in the prior years that enabled us to achieve higher earnings than before the beginning of the global economic recession at the same sales volume.  32 Financial Metrics  We utilize several financial metrics to evaluate the performance and assess the future direction of our business. These key financial measures and metrics include net revenues, gross profit margin, operating margin, segment operating income, end-of-period backlog, and the book-to-bill ratio. We also monitor changes in inventory turnover and average selling prices (ASP).  Gross profit margin is computed as gross profit as a percentage of net revenues. Gross profit is generally net revenues less costs of products sold, but also deducts certain other period costs, particularly losses on purchase commitments and inventory write-downs. Losses on purchase commitments and inventory write-downs have the impact of reducing gross profit margin in the period of the charge, but result in improved gross profit margins in subsequent periods by reducing costs of products sold as inventory is used. Gross profit margin is clearly a function of net revenues, but also reflects our cost management programs and our ability to contain fixed costs.  Operating margin is computed as gross profit less operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues. We evaluate business segment performance on segment operating margin. Only dedicated, direct selling, general, and administrative expenses of the segments are included in the calculation of segment operating income. Segment operating margin is computed as operating income less items such as restructuring and severance costs, asset write-downs, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairments, inventory write-downs, gain or losses on purchase commitments, global operations, sales and marketing, information systems, finance and administrative groups, and other items, expressed as a percentage of net revenues. We believe that evaluating segment performance excluding such items is meaningful because it provides insight with respect to intrinsic operating results of the segment. Operating margin is clearly a function of net revenues, but also reflects our cost management programs and our ability to contain fixed costs.  End-of-period backlog is one indicator of future revenues. We include in our backlog only open orders that we expect to ship in the next twelve months. If demand falls below customers forecasts, or if customers do not control their inventory effectively, they may cancel or reschedule the shipments that are included in our backlog, in many instances without the payment of any penalty. Therefore, the backlog is not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for future periods.  An important indicator of demand in our industry is the book-to-bill ratio, which is the ratio of the amount of product ordered during a period as compared with the product that we ship during that period. A book-to-bill ratio that is greater than one indicates that our backlog is building and that we are likely to see increasing revenues in future periods. Conversely, a book-to-bill ratio that is less than one is an indicator of declining demand and may foretell declining revenues.  We focus on our inventory turnover as a measure of how well we are managing our inventory. We define inventory turnover for a financial reporting period as our costs of products sold for the four fiscal quarters ending on the last day of the reporting period divided by our average inventory for this same period. A higher level of inventory turnover reflects more efficient use of our capital. Pricing in our industry can be volatile. We analyze trends and changes in average selling prices to evaluate likely future pricing. The erosion of average selling prices of established products is typical for semiconductor products. We attempt to offset this deterioration with ongoing cost reduction activities and new product introductions. Our specialty passive components are more resistant to average selling price erosion. 33 The quarter-to-quarter trends in these financial metrics can also be an important indicator of the likely direction of our business. The following table shows net revenues, gross profit margin, operating margin, end-of-period backlog, book-to-bill ratio, inventory turnover, and changes in ASP for our business as a whole during the five fiscal quarters beginning with the second fiscal quarter of 2010 through the second fiscal quarter of 2011 (dollars in thousands):  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  (1) Net revenues include VPG through the second fiscal quarter of 2010. See Financial Metrics by Segment for further information on VPG net revenues. (2) End-of-period backlog includes backlog attributable to VPG of $38.4 million for the second fiscal quarter of 2010. See Financial Metrics by Segment below for net revenues, book-to-bill ratio, and gross profit margin broken out by segment. We experienced the continuation of an excellent business environment in the second fiscal quarter of 2011 with results similar to those of the first fiscal quarter of 2011. As anticipated, the backlog, which remains at historically high levels, has started to normalize. After a period of increasing average selling prices in 2010, prices are stabilizing with typical pricing pressure for our established semiconductor products returning. Despite the slight decline in average selling prices versus the first fiscal quarter of 2011, average selling prices remain moderately higher versus the prior year period. The favorable pricing environment and continued high levels of overall market demand for electronic components allowed us to increase net revenues over the prior year period and the previous quarters, excluding VPG. Net revenues exclusive of VPG for the second fiscal quarter of 2010 were $648.7 million. Due to the pre-crisis sales volume, favorable pricing environment, and continued low fixed costs resulting from the restructuring implemented in prior years and our on-going cost controlling initiatives, gross margins remained at historically high levels. Increasing metal prices had a negative effect on gross margins for the second fiscal quarter of 2011. Due in part to the normalization of the backlog, the book-to-bill ratio decreased to 0.95 in the second fiscal quarter of 2011 from 1.01 in the first fiscal quarter of 2011. The book-to-bill ratios for distributors and original equipment manufacturers (OEM) were 0.94 and 0.96, respectively, versus ratios of 0.99 and 1.04, respectively, during the first fiscal quarter of 2011. Due to increasing inventory levels at distributors and a moderately weaker seasonal upturn experienced in Asia, we expect a modest a decline in revenue despite a backlog that remains at historically high levels. For the third fiscal quarter of 2011, we anticipate revenues of between $675 million and $715 million with a mainly volume-driven reduction in gross margin. 34 Financial Metrics by Segment  The following table shows net revenues, book-to-bill ratio, gross profit margin, and segment operating margin broken out by segment for the five fiscal quarters beginning with the second fiscal quarter of 2010 through the second fiscal quarter of 2011 (dollars in thousands):  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  ____________________35 Acquisition and Divestiture Activity As part of our growth strategy, we seek to expand through targeted acquisitions of other manufacturers of electronic components that have established positions in major markets, reputations for product quality and reliability, and product lines with which we have substantial marketing and technical expertise. This includes exploring opportunities to acquire targets to gain market share, penetrate different geographic markets, enhance new product development, round out our product lines, or grow our high margin niche market businesses. Acquisitions of passive components businesses would likely be made to strengthen and broaden our position as a specialty product supplier; acquisitions of discrete semiconductor businesses would be made to increase market share and to generate synergies. To limit our financial exposure, we have implemented a policy not to pursue acquisitions if our post-acquisition debt would exceed 2.5x our pro forma earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA). For these purposes, we will calculate pro forma EBITDA as the adjusted EBITDA of Vishay and the target for Vishays four preceding fiscal quarters, with a pro forma adjustment for savings which management estimates would have been achieved had the target been acquired by Vishay at the beginning of the four fiscal quarter period.  Our growth plan targets adding, through acquisitions, approximately $100 million of revenues per year over the next five years. Depending on the opportunities available, we might make several smaller acquisitions or a few larger acquisitions. We intend to use mainly cash, not debt or equity, although we do have capacity on our revolving credit facility if necessary. We are not currently targeting acquisitions larger than $500 million. We did not announce or complete any acquisitions in 2010 or the first six fiscal months of 2011. There is no assurance that we will be able to identify and acquire suitable acquisition candidates at price levels and on terms and conditions we consider acceptable.  Spin-off of Vishay Precision Group, Inc.  On October 27, 2009, we announced that we intended to spin off our measurements and foil resistors businesses into an independent, publicly-traded company to be named Vishay Precision Group, Inc. On July 6, 2010, we completed the spin-off through a tax-free stock dividend to our stockholders. Our common stockholders received 1 share of VPG common stock for every 14 shares of Vishay common stock they held on the record date, June 25, 2010, and our Class B common stockholders received 1 share of VPG Class B common stock for every 14 shares of Vishay Class B common stock they held on the record date. Until July 6, 2010, VPG was part of Vishay and its results of operations and cash flows are included in the balances reported in the accompanying consolidated condensed financial statements for periods prior to the spin-off. The product lines that comprise VPG are included in the VPG reporting segment. See Note 8 to our accompanying consolidated condensed financial statements for further information on the effect that VPG had on our consolidated results.  36 Cost Management  We place a strong emphasis on controlling our costs. The erosion of average selling prices of established products, particularly our semiconductor products, that is typical of our industry and inflation drive us to continually seek ways to reduce our variable costs. Our variable cost reduction efforts include expending capital to increase automation and maximize the efficiency in our production facilities, consolidating materials purchasing across regions and divisions to achieve economies of scale, materials substitution, maintaining an appropriate mix of in-house production and subcontractor production, increasing wafer size and shrinking dies to maximize efficiency in our semiconductor production processes, and other yield improvement activities.  Our cost management strategy also includes a focus on controlling fixed costs. After the spin-off of VPG, we seek to maintain selling, general, and administrative expenses at current quarterly levels, excluding foreign currency exchange effects and substantially independent of sales volume changes. Our fixed cost control efforts include automating administrative processes through the expansion of IT systems, gradually migrating to common IT systems across our organization, streamlining our legal entity structure, and reducing our external resource needs by utilizing more cost-effective in-house personnel, while utilizing external resources when day-to-day expertise is not required in-house. Historically, our primary cost reduction technique was through the transfer of production to the extent possible from high-labor-cost countries, such as the United States and Western Europe, to lower-labor-cost countries, such as the Czech Republic, Israel, India, Malaysia, Mexico, the Peoples Republic of China, and the Philippines. The percentage of our total headcount in lower-labor-cost countries is a measure of the extent to which we were successful in implementing this program. This percentage was 76.1% at the end of the second fiscal quarter of 2011 as compared to 76.5% and 74.6% at the end of 2010 and 2009, respectively, and 57% when this program began in 2001. We believe that our workforce is now appropriately located to serve our customers, while maintaining lower manufacturing costs. Between 2001 and 2007, we recorded, in the consolidated statements of operations, restructuring and severance costs totaling $223 million and related asset write-downs totaling $81 million in order to reduce our cost structure going forward. We also incurred significant costs to restructure and integrate acquired businesses, which was included in the cost of the acquisitions under then-applicable GAAP. In response to the economic downturn which began during the latter half of 2008 and continued into 2009, we undertook significant measures to cut costs. This included a strict adaptation of manufacturing capacity to sellable volume, limiting the building of product for inventory, headcount reductions in virtually every facility and every country in which we operated, temporary layoffs and shutdowns, minimizing the use of foundries and subcontractors in order to maximize the load of our owned facilities, as well as selected plant closures. We closed two facilities in the United States and consolidated manufacturing for these product lines into other facilities. We also consolidated our optoelectronics packaging facilities in Asia. We successfully closed a film capacitor plant in Shanghai and increased production on existing equipment in Loni, India to replace the production volume of the closed plant. We incurred restructuring and severance costs of $62.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2008, including $28.6 million during the fourth fiscal quarter of 2008, and incurred additional restructuring and severance costs of $37.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2009. These costs were incurred as part of our goal to reduce manufacturing and SG&A fixed costs in 2009 by $200 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2008 in response to the global economic downturn. Our fixed costs for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased by $176 million versus the comparable prior year. Of these amounts, approximately 45% reduced costs of products sold and approximately 55% reduced SG&A expenses. Some of our cost reductions realized in 2009 were the result of temporary measures, which we replaced with more permanent actions, and certain components of our costs, while fixed in that they do not vary with changes in volume, are subject to volatility. This would include, for example, the effect of certain assets that are marked-to-market through the statement of operations, and certain transactions in foreign currencies. Accordingly, there is no assurance that all of the cost reductions achieved in 2009 will be maintained in future periods.  37 We have realized, and expect to continue to realize, significant annual net cost savings associated with our restructuring activities. Since the latter half of 2008, we drastically reduced our break-even point by approximately $450 million. While streamlining and reducing fixed overhead, we exercised caution so that we would not negatively impact our customer service or our ability to further develop products and processes. The risks associated with our cost reduction programs are further detailed in Item 1A, Risk Factors of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 filed with the SEC on February 25, 2011. We did not initiate any new restructuring projects in 2010 or the first six fiscal months of 2011 and thus did not record any restructuring and severance expenses during such periods. Because we believe that our manufacturing footprint is suitable to serve our customers and end markets, we do not anticipate any material restructuring expenses in 2011. However, the recurrence of a significant economic downturn may require us to implement additional restructuring initiatives.  Our long-term strategy is to grow through the integration of acquired businesses, and GAAP requires plant closure and employee termination costs that we incur in connection with our acquisition activities to be recorded as expenses in our consolidated statement of operations, as such expenses are incurred. For this reason, we expect to have some level of future restructuring expenses if we were to complete an acquisition. 38 Foreign Currency Translation  We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks, particularly due to transactions in currencies other than the functional currencies of certain subsidiaries. While we have in the past used forward exchange contracts to hedge a portion of our projected cash flows from these exposures, we generally have not done so in recent periods.  GAAP requires that we identify the functional currency of each of our subsidiaries and measure all elements of the financial statements in that functional currency. A subsidiarys functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates. In cases where a subsidiary is relatively self-contained within a particular country, the local currency is generally deemed to be the functional currency. However, a foreign subsidiary that is a direct and integral component or extension of the parent companys operations generally would have the parent companys currency as its functional currency. We have both situations among our subsidiaries. Foreign Subsidiaries which use the Local Currency as the Functional Currency  We finance our operations in Europe and certain locations in Asia in local currencies, and accordingly, these subsidiaries utilize the local currency as their functional currency. For those subsidiaries where the local currency is the functional currency, assets and liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets have been translated at the rate of exchange as of the balance sheet date. Translation adjustments do not impact the results of operations and are reported as a separate component of stockholders equity. For those subsidiaries where the local currency is the functional currency, revenues and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate for the year. While the translation of revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars does not directly impact the statement of operations, the translation effectively increases or decreases the U.S. dollar equivalent of revenues generated and expenses incurred in those foreign currencies. The dollar generally has been weaker during the first six fiscal months and second fiscal quarter of 2011 compared to the first six fiscal months and second fiscal quarter of 2010, with the translation of foreign currency revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars increasing reported revenues and expenses versus the comparable prior year periods. The dollar generally has been weaker during the second fiscal quarter of 2011 sequentially compared to the prior fiscal quarter, with the translation of foreign currency revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars increasing reported revenues and expenses versus the prior fiscal quarter. Foreign Subsidiaries which use the U.S. Dollar as the Functional Currency  Our operations in Israel and most significant locations in Asia are largely financed in U.S. dollars, and accordingly, these subsidiaries utilize the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. For those foreign subsidiaries where the U.S. dollar is the functional currency, all foreign currency financial statement amounts are remeasured into U.S. dollars. Exchange gains and losses arising from remeasurement of foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities are included in the results of operations. While these subsidiaries transact most business in U.S. dollars, they may have significant costs, particularly payroll-related, which are incurred in the local currency. The cost of products sold and selling, general, and administrative expense for first six fiscal months and second fiscal quarter of 2011 have been slightly unfavorably impacted (compared to the prior year periods) by local currency transactions of subsidiaries which use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency.  39 Results of Operations Statement of operations captions as a percentage of net revenues and the effective tax rates were as follows:   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  Net Revenues Net revenues were as follows (dollars in thousands):   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  Changes in net revenues were attributable to the following:   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  The recovery of our business that we began experiencing in the second half of 2009 accelerated in the second fiscal quarter of 2010 due to historically high overall demand for electronic components and the effects of the cost reductions initiated in the prior year that enabled us to achieve significantly higher earnings than before the beginning of the global economic recession despite lower sales volume. Our results for the fiscal quarter and six fiscal months ended July 2, 2011 represent the continuation of a favorable business environment with sales normalizing at pre-global economic recession levels and the effects of the cost reductions initiated in prior years enabling us to achieve significantly higher earnings than before the beginning of the global economic recession at the same sales volume.  40 We deduct, from the sales that we record to distributors, allowances for future credits that we expect to provide for returns, scrapped product, and price adjustments under various programs made available to the distributors. We make deductions corresponding to particular sales in the period in which the sales are made, although the corresponding credits may not be issued until future periods. We estimate the deductions based on sales levels to distributors, inventory levels at the distributors, current and projected market trends and conditions, recent and historical activity under the relevant programs, changes in program policies, and open requests for credits. We recorded deductions from gross sales under our distributor incentive programs of $42.6 million and $38.9 million for the six fiscal months ended July 2, 2011 and July 3, 2010 respectively, or 2.9% and 2.8% of gross sales, respectively. Actual credits issued under the programs during the six fiscal months ended July 2, 2011 and July 3, 2010 were $41.7 million and $29.3 million, respectively. Increases and decreases in these incentives are largely attributable to the then-current business climate. Royalty revenues, included in net revenues on the consolidated condensed statements of operations, were approximately $2.9 million and $2.8 million for the six fiscal months ended July 2, 2011 and July 3, 2010, respectively.  Gross Profit and Margins  Gross profit margins for the fiscal quarter and six fiscal months ended July 2, 2011 were 29.9% and 30.4%, respectively, versus 30.0% and 28.1%, respectively, for the comparable prior year periods. The gross profit margin for the fiscal quarter and six fiscal months ended July 3, 2010 was 29.3% and 27.4%, respectively, excluding VPG. The increase in gross profit margin, excluding VPG, reflects manufacturing efficiencies from higher volume and increased average selling prices, partially offset by higher metals prices. Segments  Analysis of revenues and gross profit margins for our segments is provided below.  MOSFETs  Net revenues of the MOSFETs segment were as follows (dollars in thousands):   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  Changes in MOSFETs segment net revenues were attributable to the following:   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  41 Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues for the MOSFETs segment was as follows:   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  The decrease in gross profit margin versus the fiscal quarter ended July 3, 2010 is primarily due to the normalization of average selling prices in 2011 from the historically high levels experienced beginning in the second fiscal quarter of 2011 and an unfavorable change in product mix. The increase in gross profit margin versus six fiscal months ended July 3, 2010 reflects higher volume and increased average selling prices, and our continued cost containment activities. The gross profit margin increased versus the first fiscal quarter of 2011 primarily due to higher volume. After a period of increasing average selling prices in 2010, typical pricing pressure for our established MOSFETs products has returned. The normalization of average selling prices from the historically high levels experienced beginning in the second fiscal quarter of 2010 have led to lower average selling prices versus the first fiscal quarter of 2011 and the six fiscal months ended July 3, 2010. Based on a high backlog, we expect similar segment net revenues in the third fiscal quarter of 2011, despite a book-to-bill ratio of 0.95. Diodes  Net revenues of the Diodes segment were as follows (dollars in thousands):   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  Changes in Diodes segment net revenues were attributable to the following:   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues for the Diodes segment was as follows:   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  The increase in gross profit margin reflects higher volume, favorable product mix, increased average selling prices, and foreign currency effects.  42 After a period of increasing average selling prices in 2010, typical pricing pressure for our established Diodes products has returned. Despite a modest decline in average selling prices versus the first fiscal quarter of 2011, average selling prices remain moderately higher versus the fiscal quarter and six fiscal months ended July 3, 2010. Based on a high backlog, we expect similar segment net revenues in the third fiscal quarter of 2011, despite a book-to-bill ratio of 0.97.  Optoelectronic Components  Net revenues of the Optoelectronic Components segment were as follows (dollars in thousands):   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  Changes in Optoelectronic Components segment net revenues were attributable to the following:   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues for the Optoelectronic Components segment was as follows:   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  Gross profit margin has remained consistent versus the first fiscal quarter of 2011 and the six fiscal months ended July 3, 2010. The decrease in gross profit margin versus the fiscal quarter ended July 3, 2010 reflects modestly lower average selling prices.  After a period of increasing average selling prices in 2010, typical pricing pressure for our established Optoelectronic Components products has returned. The backlog remains at a high level despite a reduction in the second fiscal quarter of 2011 due to low order volume. Based on a high backlog, we expect similar segment net revenues in the third fiscal quarter of 2011, despite a book-to-bill ratio of 0.86.  43 Resistors & Inductors  Net revenues of the Resistors & Inductors segment were as follows (dollars in thousands):   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  Changes in Resistors & Inductors segment net revenues were attributable to the following:   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues for the Resistors & Inductors segment was as follows:   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  Gross profit margin levels remain relatively consistent with the excellent results of the prior quarter and prior year periods. The slight decrease versus the first fiscal quarter of 2011 reflects modestly lower volume. The slight decreases versus the prior year periods reflect slightly higher metals and material costs partially offset by higher volume, increased average selling prices, and foreign currency effects.  Average selling prices increased slightly versus the first fiscal quarter of 2011 and the prior year periods. Based on continued strong demand from the automotive and industrial markets and backlog that remains high, we continue to expect strong segment net revenues in the third fiscal quarter of 2011 slightly impacted by European seasonality. 44 Capacitors  Net revenues of the Capacitors segment were as follows (dollars in thousands):   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  Changes in Capacitors segment net revenues were attributable to the following:   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues for the Capacitors segment was as follows:   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  The increase in gross profit margin versus the prior year periods reflect selective increases in selling prices, and a favorable product mix, partially offset by foreign currency effects and higher metals costs. Volume variances also contributed to the gross profit margin variance versus the prior quarter and six fiscal months ended July 2, 2011. The decrease in gross profit margin versus the prior quarter also reflects high metals costs.  The backlog for our Capacitors products remains stable at a historically high level. Average selling prices have stabilized versus the first fiscal quarter of 2011, but remain substantially higher than the prior year periods. We expect seasonally weaker segment net revenues in the third fiscal quarter of 2011. Vishay Precision Group  We completed the spin-off of VPG on July 6, 2010. VPG net revenues and gross profit margin for the fiscal quarter and six fiscal months ended July 3, 2010 that is included in our consolidated condensed results is as follows (dollars in thousands):   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  45 Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses  Selling, general, and administrative expenses are summarized as follows (dollars in thousands):   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  VPG accounted for $19.8 million and $35.0 million (including $6.0 million and $8.1 million, respectively, of costs associated with the spin-off) of SG&A expenses for the fiscal quarter and six fiscal months ended July 3, 2010, respectively. The overall increase in SG&A expenses, excluding VPG, is primarily attributable to increases in earnings, which affects bonus programs. The decrease in SG&A as a percentage of revenues is primarily due to the increase in revenues and the effects of our cost containment initiatives. Additionally, several items included in SG&A expenses impact the comparability of these amounts, as summarized below (in thousands):   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  Other Income (Expense)  Interest expense for the fiscal quarter and six fiscal months ended July 2, 2011 increased by $2.2 million and $3.8 million, respectively, versus the comparable prior year periods. The increase is primarily due to interest on the convertible senior debentures due 2040 and due 2041 that were issued on November 9, 2010 and May 13, 2011, respectively. The following tables analyze the components of the line Other on the consolidated condensed statements of operations (in thousands):   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  46  Income Taxes  For the fiscal quarter and six fiscal months ended July 2, 2011, the effective tax rate was 25.6% and 30.8%, respectively, as compared to 26.6% and 26.9% for the fiscal quarter and six fiscal months ended July 3, 2010, respectively. The effective tax rate is generally less than the U.S. statutory rate primarily because of earnings in foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate for the six fiscal months ended July 2, 2011 includes a one-time tax expense in Israel of approximately $10 million. In January 2011, a new tax law was enacted in Israel which effectively lowered the corporate income tax rate on certain types of income earned after December 31, 2010. Accordingly, our deferred tax assets in Israel were written down to reflect the lower rate and a one-time tax expense of approximately $10 million was recorded in the consolidated condensed statement of operations during the first fiscal quarter of 2011.  We operate in a global environment with significant operations in various locations outside the United States. Accordingly, the consolidated income tax rate is a composite rate reflecting our earnings and the applicable tax rates in the various locations where we operate. Part of our strategy is to achieve cost savings through the transfer and expansion of manufacturing operations to countries where we can take advantage of lower labor costs and available tax and other government-sponsored incentives. Accordingly, our effective tax rate is generally less than the U.S. statutory tax rate. Changes in the effective tax rate are largely attributable to changes in the mix of pretax income among our various taxing jurisdictions.  During the six fiscal months ended July 2, 2011, the liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits increased by $4.7 million on a net basis, principally due to increases for positions taken during prior periods, interest, and foreign exchange effects.  47  Financial Condition, Liquidity, and Capital Resources  We focus on our ability to generate cash flows from operations. The cash generated from operations is used to fund our capital expenditure plans, and cash in excess of our capital expenditure needs is available to fund our acquisition strategy and to reduce debt levels. We have generated cash flows from operations in excess of $200 million in each of the past 9 years, and cash flows from operations in excess of $100 million in each of the past 16 years. A portion of the cash flows from operations was generated by the Vishay Precision Group which was spun off on July 6, 2010.  We refer to the amount of cash generated from operations in excess of our capital expenditure needs and net of proceeds from the sale of assets as free cash, a measure which management uses to evaluate our ability to fund acquisitions, repay debt, and otherwise enhance stockholder value through stock buy-backs or dividends. Vishay has generated positive free cash in each of the past 14 years, and free cash in excess of $80 million in each of the past 9 years. In this volatile economic environment, we continue to focus on the generation of free cash, including an emphasis on cost controls. We continued to generate strong cash flows from operations and free cash during the fiscal quarter and six fiscal months ended July 2, 2011. There is no assurance, however, that we will be able to continue to generate cash flows from operations and free cash at the same levels, or at all, going forward if, among other things, the current recovery stalls or does not continue as expected.  During the second fiscal quarter of 2011, we capitalized on favorable conditions and enhanced stockholder value by repurchasing shares of our common stock. On May 13, 2011, we completed the offering of $150 million principal amount of 2.25% convertible senior debentures due 2041 to qualified institutional investors. We used the net proceeds from this offering, together with cash on hand, to repurchase 8,620,689 shares of common stock at $17.40 per share for an aggregate purchase price of $150 million. The use of low-coupon, long-dated convertible debentures was a more efficient means to finance the repurchase versus repatriation of non-U.S. cash. See Note 4 to our consolidated condensed financial statements.  We maintain a credit facility, which provides a revolving commitment of up to $450 million through December 1, 2015. The credit facility also provides for the ability for us to request up to $100 million of incremental commitments, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. At July 2, 2011 and December 31, 2010, $180 million and $240 million, respectively, was outstanding under the credit facility. Borrowings under the credit facility bear interest at LIBOR plus an interest margin. The applicable interest margin is based on our then current leverage ratio. Based on our leverage ratio at April 2, 2011, borrowings bear interest at LIBOR plus 1.65%. We are also required to pay facility commitment fees of 0.35% per annum on the entire commitment amount. The borrowings under the credit facility are secured by a lien on substantially all assets located in the United States, including accounts receivable, inventory, machinery and equipment, and general intangibles (but excluding real estate, intellectual property registered or licensed for use in, or arising under the laws of, any country other than the United States, and bank and securities accounts) of Vishay and certain significant domestic subsidiaries, and pledges of stock in certain significant domestic and foreign subsidiaries and are guaranteed by certain significant subsidiaries. Certain of our subsidiaries are permitted to borrow under the credit facility, subject to the satisfaction of specified conditions. Any borrowings by these subsidiaries under the credit facility are guaranteed by Vishay. The credit facility includes restrictions on, among other things, incurring indebtedness, incurring liens on assets, making investments and acquisitions, making asset sales, and paying cash dividends and making other restricted payments, and requires us to comply with other covenants, including the maintenance of specific financial ratios. The financial maintenance covenants include (a) an interest expense coverage ratio of not less than 2.00 to 1; and (b) a leverage ratio of not more than 3.25 to 1 (and a pro forma ratio of 2.75 to 1 on the date of incurrence of additional debt). The computation of these ratios is prescribed in Article 6 of the Credit Agreement between Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., which has been filed with the SEC as Exhibit 10.1 to our current report on Form 8-K filed December 1, 2010.  48  We were in compliance with all covenants at July 2, 2011. Our interest expense coverage ratio and leverage ratio were 37.99 to 1 and 0.92 to 1, respectively. We expect to continue to be in compliance with these covenants based on current projections. If we are not in compliance with all of the required financial covenants, the credit facility could be terminated by the lenders, and all amounts outstanding pursuant to the credit facility could become immediately payable. Additionally, our exchangeable unsecured notes due 2102 and our convertible senior debentures due 2040 and due 2041 have cross-default provisions that could accelerate repayment in the event the indebtedness under the credit facility is accelerated.  In 2011, we began investing a portion of our excess cash in highly liquid, high-quality instruments with maturities greater than 90 days, but less than 1 year. As these investments were funded using a portion of excess cash and represent a significant aspect of our cash management strategy, we include the investments in the calculation of net cash and short-term investments (debt). The following table summarizes the components of net cash and short-term investments (debt) at July 2, 2011 and December 31, 2010 (in thousands):  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   *Represents the carrying amount of the convertible debentures, which is comprised of the principal amount of the debentures, net of the unamortized discount and the associated embedded derivative liability.  Measurements such as free cash and net cash and short-term investments (debt) do not have uniform definitions and are not recognized in accordance with GAAP. Such measures should not be viewed as alternatives to GAAP measures of performance or liquidity. However, management believes that free cash is a meaningful measure of our ability to fund acquisitions, repay debt, and otherwise enhance stockholder value through stock buy-backs or dividends, and that an analysis of net cash and short-term investments (debt) assists investors in understanding aspects of our cash and debt management. These measures, as calculated by us, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.  Approximately 96% of our July 2, 2011 cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments balances were held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries. At the present time, we expect the remaining cash and profits generated by foreign subsidiaries will continue to be reinvested outside of the United States indefinitely. If additional cash is needed to be repatriated to the United States, we would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits), state income taxes, incremental foreign income taxes, and withholding taxes payable to various foreign countries.  Our financial condition as of July 2, 2011 continued to be strong, with a current ratio (current assets to current liabilities) of 3.7 to 1, as compared to a ratio of 3.4 to 1 as of December 31, 2010. This increase is primarily due to an increase in cash from operations and other changes in working capital. Our ratio of total debt to Vishay stockholders equity was 0.26 to 1 at July 2, 2011 as compared to a ratio of 0.29 to 1 at December 31, 2010. This decrease is primarily due to an increase in stockholders equity primarily driven by net earnings available to Vishay stockholders.  49  Cash flows provided by continuing operating activities were $173.9 million for the six fiscal months ended July 2, 2011, as compared to cash flows provided by operations of $177.6 million for the six fiscal months ended July 3, 2010. This decrease is principally due to a greater increase in net working capital in the six fiscal months ended July 2, 2011 due to increased sales, partially offset by better operating results in the six fiscal months ended July 2, 2011 compared to the six fiscal months ended July 3, 2010. Cash paid for property and equipment for the six fiscal months ended July 2, 2011 was $45.4 million, as compared to $49.2 million for the six fiscal months ended July 3, 2010. To enable us to benefit from the stronger than originally anticipated business climate we now expect capital spending of approximately $175 million in 2011, about 16% higher than originally expected, with a focus on capacity expansion for innovative MOSFETs, Trench diodes, power film capacitors, and power inductors technologies and products. In 2011, we began investing a portion of our excess cash in highly liquid, high-quality instruments with maturities greater than 90 days, but less than 1 year. Accordingly, these investments are not classified as cash and cash equivalents on the accompanying consolidated condensed balance sheet. The interest rates on these instruments average 1.7% and are approximately 90 basis points higher than interest rates on our cash accounts. Transactions related to these investments are classified as investing activities on the accompanying consolidated condensed statement of cash flows. In December 2010, we borrowed $240 million under our revolving credit facility to repay the outstanding amounts under our previous credit facility. We have not drawn any additional amounts on our credit facility and repaid $60 million on our credit facility during the second fiscal quarter of 2011. The average outstanding balance on our credit facility calculated at fiscal month-ends was $223.3 million and the highest amount outstanding on our credit facility at a month end was $240 million. Management expects to continue to maintain an outstanding balance of at least $180 million on the credit facility, and may periodically use the credit facility to meet short-term financing needs, but expects that cash on-hand and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our longer-term financing needs related to normal operating requirements, obligations under restructuring and acquisition integration programs, and our research and development and capital expenditure plans. Acquisition activity may require additional borrowing under our credit facility or may otherwise require us to incur additional debt.  50  Contractual Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  Our Annual Report on Form 10-K includes a table of contractual commitments as of December 31, 2010. Except as described below, there were no material changes to these commitments during the six fiscal months ended July 2, 2011.  The following tables represent our long-term debt obligations and expected cash requirements for interest as of July 2, 2011 and December 31, 2010, reflecting the issuance of $150 million principal amount of senior convertible debentures due 2041 and the repayment of $60 million on our credit facility during the second fiscal quarter of 2011 (see Note 4 to the consolidated condensed financial statements).  Contractual Obligations as of July 2, 2011 (in thousands):  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  ____________________ (1) Excludes unamortized debt discount associated with our convertible senior debentures due 2040 and due 2041. (2) Excludes the non-cash interest expense related to the amortization of the discount associated with our convertible senior debentures due 2040 and due 2041. Contractual Obligations as of December 31, 2010 (in thousands):  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  ____________________    (1) Excludes unamortized debt discount associated with our convertible senior debentures due 2040. (2) Excludes the non-cash interest expense related to the amortization of the discount associated with our convertible senior debentures due 2040.51  Safe Harbor Statement  From time to time, information provided by us, including but not limited to statements in this report, or other statements made by or on our behalf, may contain forward-looking information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as believe, estimate, will be, will, would, expect, anticipate, plan, project, intend, could, should, or other similar words or expressions often identify forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on current expectations only, and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, many of which are beyond our control. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results, performance, or achievements may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated, or projected. Among the factors that could cause actual results to materially differ include: general business and economic conditions, particularly the pace and continuation of recovery in the worldwide economy; difficulties in identifying suitable acquisition candidates, consummating a transaction on terms which we consider acceptable, and integration and performance of acquired businesses; difficulties in new product development; changes in competition and technology in the markets that we serve and the mix of our products required to address these changes; an inability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, particularly in respect of our acquired businesses; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; difficulties in implementing our cost management strategies; uncertainty related to the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates; and other factors affecting our operations, markets, products, services, and prices that are set forth in our filings with the SEC, including our annual reports on Form 10-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 52  Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 7.     MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    Overview Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. is a global manufacturer and supplier of semiconductors and passive components, including power MOSFETs, power integrated circuits, transistors, diodes, optoelectronic components, resistors, capacitors, and inductors. Discrete semiconductors and passive components manufactured by Vishay are used in virtually all types of electronic products, including those in the industrial, computing, automotive, consumer electronic products, telecommunications, power supplies, military/aerospace, and medical industries. On July 6, 2010, we completed the spin-off of Vishay Precision Group, Inc. (VPG) through a tax-free stock dividend to our stockholders. Our common stockholders received 1 share of VPG common stock for every 14 shares of Vishay common stock they held on the record date, June 25, 2010, and our Class B common stockholders received 1 share of VPG Class B common stock for every 14 shares of Vishay Class B common stock they held on the record date. Until July 6, 2010, VPG was part of Vishay and its results of operations and cash flows are included in the balances reported in our consolidated financial statements for periods prior to the spin-off. Prior to the completion of the spin-off of VPG, we operated in six product segments, MOSFETs, Diodes, Optoelectronic Components, Resistors & Inductors, Capacitors, and Vishay Precision Group. Following the spin-off we operate in five product segments. On June 4, 2011, Dr. Felix Zandman, our founder and Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Technical Officer, and Chief Business Development Officer, passed away. Dr. Zandman will never be forgotten as his legacy will live on across the world through all Vishay employees. We will continue to implement the vision, strategy, and culture articulated by Dr. Zandman as we continue to work tirelessly to enhance value for our stockholders. In accordance with our succession plan, Marc Zandman was elected as Executive Chairman of the Board. Marc Zandman also succeeded Dr. Zandman as our Chief Business Development Officer. Dr. Gerald Paul will continue leading Vishay as our President and Chief Executive Officer. Since 1985, we have pursued a business strategy of growth through acquisitions and focused research and development. Through this strategy, we have grown to become one of the worlds largest manufacturers of discrete semiconductors and passive components. We expect to continue our strategy of acquisitions while also maintaining a prudent capital structure. We are focused on enhancing stockholder value by repurchasing our stock and improving earnings per share. In the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010 and second fiscal quarter of 2011, we completed the repurchase of 21.7 million shares of our common stock for $275 million and 8.6 million shares of our common stock for $150 million, respectively. On September 8, 2011, we entered into an amendment to our credit facility that effectively permits us to repurchase up to $300 million of additional shares, conditioned upon maintaining specific pro forma financial ratios and a required minimal amount of available liquidity, as defined in the amendment. Beginning in 2012, our capacity to repurchase shares of stock will increase each quarter by an amount equal to 20% of net income. We will continue to evaluate attractive stock repurchase opportunities. Our business and operating results have been and will continue to be impacted by worldwide economic conditions. Our revenues are dependent on end markets that are impacted by consumer and industrial demand, and our operating results can be adversely affected by reduced demand in those global markets. For several years, we implemented aggressive cost reduction programs. We continue to monitor the current environment and its potential effects on our customers and the end markets that we serve. Additionally, we continue to closely monitor our costs, inventory, and capital resources to respond to changing conditions and to ensure we have the management, business processes, and resources to meet our future needs. See additional information regarding our competitive strengths and key challenges as disclosed in Part 1. Despite uncertain short-term global economic conditions, we are confident of the long-term prospects of our business and the electronics industry in general. 36 Contents   We utilize several financial metrics, including net revenues, gross profit margin, segment operating income, end-of-period backlog, book-to-bill ratio, inventory turnover, change in average selling prices, net cash and short-term investments (debt), and free cash generation to evaluate the performance and assess the future direction of our business. (See further discussion in Financial Metrics and Financial Condition, Liquidity, and Capital Resources.) The downturn in demand that much of our industry experienced in the last six fiscal months of 2011 has resulted in a reduction in nearly all key financial metrics compared with the prior year. Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 were $2.594 billion, compared to net revenues of $2.725 billion and $2.042 billion for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The net earnings attributable to Vishay stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $238.8 million, or $1.42 per diluted share, compared to net earnings attributable to Vishay stockholders of $359.1 million, or $1.89 per share, and a net loss attributable to Vishay stockholders of $57.2 million, or $0.31 per share, for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 include a pretax charge of $3.9 million to accelerate the recognition of certain executive compensation upon the passing of Dr. Zandman, a pretax charge of $1.9 million for elements of executive compensation payable upon the resignation of our former Chief Financial Officer, Dr. Lior Yahalomi, $10.0 million of one-time tax expense related to the write-down of deferred tax assets in Israel to reflect the lower corporate income tax rate enacted in January 2011 on certain types of income earned after December 31, 2010, and $6.5 million of one-time tax benefits recorded in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011 primarily related to the release of deferred tax valuation allowances in various jurisdictions. The net earnings (loss) attributable to Vishay stockholders for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 include various items affecting comparability as listed in the reconciliation schedule below. The reconciliation below includes certain financial measures which are not recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), including adjusted net earnings (loss) and adjusted net earnings (loss) per share. These non-GAAP measures should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance. Non-GAAP measures such as adjusted net earnings (loss) and adjusted net earnings (loss) per share do not have uniform definitions. These measures, as calculated by Vishay, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Management believes that these measures are meaningful because they provide insight with respect to our intrinsic operating results. Reconciling items to arrive at adjusted net earnings represent significant charges or credits that are important to understanding our intrinsic operations. The items affecting comparability are (in thousands, except per share amounts):  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  37 Contents   Our results for the year ended December 31, 2011 were affected by macroeconomic concerns, which reduced demand for our products in the last six fiscal months of the year. This period of macroeconomic concern followed a period of favorable business conditions through the first six fiscal months of 2011 in which we achieved significantly higher annualized earnings than before the beginning of the 2008-2009 global economic recession at the same sales volume. Our results for the year ended December 31, 2010 represent a period of favorable business conditions due to increased overall demand for electronic components over the year ended December 31, 2009 and the effects of the cost reductions initiated in the prior years that enabled us to achieve significantly higher earnings than before the beginning of the 2008-2009 global economic recession, at similar sales volume. Our results for the year ended December 31, 2009 were substantially impacted by the 2008-2009 global economic recession. Due to our quick reaction to the recession, we mitigated the loss of volume that we experienced through significant reductions of fixed costs and inventories, we continued to generate positive cash flows from operations during the recession, and following several quarters of experiencing losses we began to recover from the 2008-2009 global economic recession and produced positive net earnings beginning in the third fiscal quarter of 2009. Financial Metrics We utilize several financial metrics to evaluate the performance and assess the future direction of our business. These key financial measures and metrics include net revenues, gross profit margin, operating margin, segment operating income, end-of-period backlog, and the book-to-bill ratio. We also monitor changes in inventory turnover and average selling prices (ASP). Gross profit margin is computed as gross profit as a percentage of net revenues. Gross profit is generally net revenues less costs of products sold, but also deducts certain other period costs, particularly losses on purchase commitments and inventory write-downs. Losses on purchase commitments and inventory write-downs have the impact of reducing gross profit margin in the period of the charge, but result in improved gross profit margins in subsequent periods by reducing costs of products sold as inventory is used. Gross profit margin is clearly a function of net revenues, but also reflects our cost management programs and our ability to contain fixed costs. Operating margin is computed as gross profit less operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues. We evaluate business segment performance on segment operating margin. Only dedicated, direct selling, general, and administrative expenses of the segments are included in the calculation of segment operating income. Segment operating margin is computed as operating income less items such as restructuring and severance costs, asset write-downs, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairments, inventory write-downs, gain or losses on purchase commitments, global operations, sales and marketing, information systems, finance and administrative groups, and other items, expressed as a percentage of net revenues. We believe that evaluating segment performance excluding such items is meaningful because it provides insight with respect to intrinsic operating results of the segment. Operating margin is clearly a function of net revenues, but also reflects our cost management programs and our ability to contain fixed costs. End-of-period backlog is one indicator of future revenues. We include in our backlog only open orders that we expect to ship in the next twelve months. If demand falls below customers forecasts, or if customers do not control their inventory effectively, they may cancel or reschedule the shipments that are included in our backlog, in many instances without the payment of any penalty. Therefore, the backlog is not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for future periods. An important indicator of demand in our industry is the book-to-bill ratio, which is the ratio of the amount of product ordered during a period as compared with the product that we ship during that period. A book-to-bill ratio that is greater than one indicates that our backlog is building and that we are likely to see increasing revenues in future periods. Conversely, a book-to-bill ratio that is less than one is an indicator of declining demand and may foretell declining revenues. We focus on our inventory turnover as a measure of how well we are managing our inventory. We define inventory turnover for a financial reporting period as our costs of products sold for the four fiscal quarters ending on the last day of the reporting period divided by our average inventory (computed using each fiscal quarter-end balance) for this same period. A higher level of inventory turnover reflects more efficient use of our capital. 38 Contents   Pricing in our industry can be volatile. We analyze trends and changes in average selling prices to evaluate likely future pricing. The erosion of average selling prices of established products is typical for semiconductor products. We attempt to offset this deterioration with ongoing cost reduction activities and new product introductions. Our specialty passive components are more resistant to average selling price erosion. The quarter-to-quarter trends in these financial metrics can also be an important indicator of the likely direction of our business. The following table shows net revenues, gross profit margin, operating income, end-of-period backlog, book-to-bill ratio, inventory turnover, and changes in ASP for our business as a whole during the five fiscal quarters beginning with the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010 through the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011 (dollars in thousands):  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  See Financial Metrics by Segment below for net revenues, book-to-bill ratio, and gross profit margin broken out by segment. Like many of the companies in our industry, our results for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011 were impacted by low demand from distributors which led to a reduction of all key financial metrics compared to the prior fiscal quarters. The reduction in distributor inventory levels that started in Asia in the third fiscal quarter of 2011 due to reduced consumer product demand spread to distributors in the U.S. and Europe in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011 despite fairly strong industrial and automotive demand. This reduction in distributor demand has further reduced our backlog and resulted in a decrease in net revenues over the prior year period and the previous fiscal quarters. Typical pricing pressure, particularly for our established semiconductor products, has resulted in a decrease in average selling prices versus the third fiscal quarter of 2011. Despite the slight decline in average selling prices versus the third fiscal quarter of 2011, average year-to-date selling prices for 2011 remain relatively stable versus the prior year period. Lower sales volume and increasing metal prices led to a reduction in gross margins for the fourth fiscal quarter versus the prior year period and the previous fiscal quarters. Due to the reduction in cancellations and a slight increase in orders, the book-to-bill ratio increased to 0.80 in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011 from 0.67 in the third fiscal quarter of 2011. The book-to-bill ratios for distributors and original equipment manufacturers (OEM) were 0.77 and 0.83, respectively, versus ratios of 0.55 and 0.82, respectively, during the third fiscal quarter of 2011. 39 Contents   Financial Metrics by Segment The following table shows net revenues, book-to-bill ratio, gross profit margin, and segment operating margin broken out by segment for the five fiscal quarters beginning with the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010 through the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011 (dollars in thousands):  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  __________________ 40 Contents   Acquisition and Divestiture Activity As part of our growth strategy, we seek to expand through targeted acquisitions of other manufacturers of electronic components that have established positions in major markets, reputations for product quality and reliability, and product lines with which we have substantial marketing and technical expertise. This includes exploring opportunities to acquire targets to gain market share, penetrate different geographic markets, enhance new product development, round out our product lines, or grow our high margin niche market businesses. Acquisitions of passive components businesses would likely be made to strengthen and broaden our position as a specialty product supplier; acquisitions of discrete semiconductor businesses would be made to increase market share and to generate synergies. To limit our financial exposure, we have implemented a policy not to pursue acquisitions if our post-acquisition debt would exceed 2.5x our pro forma earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA). For these purposes, we will calculate pro forma EBITDA as the adjusted EBITDA of Vishay and the target for Vishays four preceding fiscal quarters, with a pro forma adjustment for savings which management estimates would have been achieved had the target been acquired by Vishay at the beginning of the four fiscal quarter period. Our growth plan targets adding, through acquisitions, approximately $100 million of revenues per year over the next five years. Depending on the opportunities available, we might make several smaller acquisitions or a few larger acquisitions. We intend to make such acquisitions using mainly cash, rather than debt or equity, although we do have capacity under our revolving credit facility if necessary. We are not currently targeting acquisitions larger than $500 million. There is no assurance that we will be able to identify and acquire additional suitable acquisition candidates at price levels and on terms and conditions we consider acceptable. 2011 Activities On September 28, 2011, we acquired the resistor businesses of Huntington Electric, Inc., for approximately $19.3 million. The businesses acquired will further enhance our broad resistor portfolio, particularly in the high power and high current ranges, as well as with resistor assemblies for industrial applications. For financial reporting purposes, the results of operations for these businesses have been included in the Resistors & Inductors segment from September 28, 2011. 2012 Activities On January 13, 2012, we acquired HiRel Systems LLC, a leading supplier of high reliability transformers, inductors, coils, and power conversion products, for approximately $85 million, including repayment of debt, and subject to customary post-closing adjustments. The products and technology portfolio acquired will further enhance our inductors portfolio, particularly in the field of custom magnetics for medical, military, aerospace and aviation, and applications in the industrial and commercial field such as renewable energy and test and measurement equipment. For financial reporting purposes, the business will be included in the Resistors & Inductors segment beginning in the first fiscal quarter of 2012. Spin-off of Vishay Precision Group, Inc. On July 6, 2010, we completed the spin-off of our measurements and foil resistors businesses into an independent, publicly-traded company named Vishay Precision Group, Inc. through a tax-free stock dividend to our stockholders. Our common stockholders received 1 share of VPG common stock for every 14 shares of Vishay common stock they held on the record date, June 25, 2010, and our Class B common stockholders received 1 share of VPG Class B common stock for every 14 shares of Vishay Class B common stock they held on the record date. Upon completion of the spin-off, certain executive officers received bonuses aggregating approximately $2.1 million, which is reflected in the results for the year ended December 31, 2010. Until July 6, 2010, VPG was part of Vishay and its assets, liabilities, results of operations, and cash flows are included in the balances reported in our consolidated financial statements for periods prior to the spin-off. The product lines that comprise VPG are included in the VPG reporting segment. See Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for further information on the effect that VPG had on our consolidated results. 41 Contents   Cost Management We place a strong emphasis on controlling our costs. The erosion of average selling prices of established products, particularly our semiconductor products, that is typical of our industry and inflation drive us to continually seek ways to reduce our variable costs. Our variable cost reduction efforts include expending capital to increase automation and maximize the efficiency in our production facilities, consolidating materials purchasing across regions and divisions to achieve economies of scale, materials substitution, maintaining an appropriate mix of in-house production and subcontractor production, increasing wafer size and shrinking dies to maximize efficiency in our semiconductor production processes, and other yield improvement activities. Our cost management strategy also includes a focus on controlling fixed costs. After the spin-off of VPG, we seek to maintain selling, general, and administrative expenses at current quarterly levels, excluding foreign currency exchange effects and substantially independent of sales volume changes. Our fixed cost control efforts include automating administrative processes through the expansion of IT systems, gradually migrating to common IT systems across our organization, streamlining our legal entity structure, and reducing our external resource needs by utilizing more cost-effective in-house personnel, while utilizing external resources when day-to-day expertise is not required in-house. Historically, our primary cost reduction technique was through the transfer of production to the extent possible from high-labor-cost countries, such as the United States and Western Europe, to lower-labor-cost countries, such as the Czech Republic, Israel, India, Malaysia, Mexico, the Peoples Republic of China, and the Philippines. The percentage of our total headcount in lower-labor-cost countries is a measure of the extent to which we were successful in implementing this program. This percentage was 74.3% at the end of 2011 as compared to 57% when this program began in 2001. We believe that our workforce is now appropriately located to serve our customers, while maintaining lower manufacturing costs. Between 2001 and 2007, we recorded, in the consolidated statements of operations, restructuring and severance costs totaling $223 million and related asset write-downs totaling $81 million in order to reduce our cost structure going forward. We also incurred significant costs to restructure and integrate acquired businesses, which was included in the cost of the acquisitions under then-applicable GAAP. In response to the economic downturn which began during the latter half of 2008 and continued into 2009, we undertook significant measures to cut costs. We incurred restructuring and severance costs of $37.9 million and $62.5 million during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, as part of our goal to reduce manufacturing and selling, general, and administrative fixed costs. We have realized, and expect to continue to realize, significant annual net cost savings associated with these restructuring activities. Since the latter half of 2008, we drastically reduced our break-even point by approximately $450 million. While streamlining and reducing fixed overhead, we exercised caution so that we will not negatively impact our customer service or our ability to further develop products and processes. The risks associated with our cost reduction programs are further detailed in Item 1A, Risk Factors. We did not initiate any new restructuring projects in 2011 or 2010 and thus did not record any restructuring and severance expenses during such periods. Because we believe that our manufacturing footprint is suitable to serve our customers and end markets, we do not anticipate any material restructuring expenses in 2012. Although we experienced lower demand in the last six fiscal months of 2011, we currently plan to keep our trained workforce even at lower manufacturing activity levels by reducing hours and limiting the use of subcontractors and foundries. However, the recurrence of a significant economic downturn may require us to implement additional restructuring initiatives. Our long-term strategy includes growth through the integration of acquired businesses, and GAAP requires plant closure and employee termination costs that we incur in connection with our acquisition activities to be recorded as expenses in our consolidated statement of operations, as such expenses are incurred. For this reason, we expect to have some level of future restructuring expenses due to acquisitions. 42 Contents   Israeli Operations We have substantial manufacturing operations in Israel, where we benefit from the governments grants and tax incentive programs. These benefits take the form of government grants and reduced tax rates that are lower than those in the United States. These programs have contributed substantially, predominantly in prior years, to our growth and profitability. The current benefits derived under these programs are not material to our consolidated results. Because of our significant presence in Israel, the availability of these incentive programs could have a significant positive effect on us if we relocate manufacturing capacity or develop new product lines there. However, there are no current plans that would allow us to earn significant additional benefits. Foreign Currency Translation We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks, particularly due to transactions in currencies other than the functional currencies of certain subsidiaries. While we have in the past used forward exchange contracts to hedge a portion of our projected cash flows from these exposures, we generally have not done so in recent periods.  GAAP requires that entities identify the functional currency of each of their subsidiaries and measure all elements of the financial statements in that functional currency. A subsidiarys functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates. In cases where a subsidiary is relatively self-contained within a particular country, the local currency is generally deemed to be the functional currency. However, a foreign subsidiary that is a direct and integral component or extension of the parent companys operations generally would have the parent companys currency as its functional currency. We have both situations among our subsidiaries. Foreign Subsidiaries which use the Local Currency as the Functional Currency We finance our operations in Europe and certain locations in Asia in local currencies, and accordingly, these subsidiaries utilize the local currency as their functional currency. For those subsidiaries where the local currency is the functional currency, assets and liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets have been translated at the rate of exchange as of the balance sheet date. Translation adjustments do not impact the results of operations and are reported as a separate component of stockholders equity. For those subsidiaries where the local currency is the functional currency, revenues and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate for the year. While the translation of revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars does not directly impact the consolidated statement of operations, the translation effectively increases or decreases the U.S. dollar equivalent of revenues generated and expenses incurred in those foreign currencies. The dollar generally was weaker in the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the prior year, with the translation of foreign currency revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars increasing reported revenues and expenses versus the comparable prior year periods. Foreign Subsidiaries which use the U.S. Dollar as the Functional Currency Our operations in Israel and most significant locations in Asia are largely financed in U.S. dollars, and accordingly, these subsidiaries utilize the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. For those foreign subsidiaries where the U.S. dollar is the functional currency, all foreign currency financial statement amounts are remeasured into U.S. dollars. Exchange gains and losses arising from remeasurement of foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities are included in the results of operations. While these subsidiaries transact most business in U.S. dollars, they may have significant costs, particularly payroll-related, which are incurred in the local currency. The cost of products sold and selling, general, and administrative expense for the year ended December 31, 2011 have been slightly unfavorably impacted (compared to the prior year) by local currency transactions of subsidiaries which use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. See Item 7A for additional discussion of foreign currency exchange risk. 43 Contents   Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our significant accounting policies are summarized in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. We identify here a number of policies that entail significant judgments or estimates. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue on product sales during the period when the sales process is complete. This generally occurs when products are shipped to the customer in accordance with terms of an agreement of sale, title and risk of loss have been transferred, collectibility is reasonably assured, and pricing is fixed or determinable. For a small percentage of sales where title and risk of loss passes at point of delivery, we recognize revenue upon delivery to the customer, assuming all other criteria for revenue recognition are met. We historically have had agreements with distributors that provided limited rights of product return. We have modified these arrangements to allow distributors a limited credit for unsaleable products, which we term a scrap allowance. Consistent with industry practice, we also have a stock, ship and debit program whereby we consider, and grant at our discretion, requests by distributors for credits on previously purchased products that remain in distributors inventory, to enable the distributors to offer more competitive pricing. In addition, we have contractual arrangements whereby we provide distributors with protection against price reductions that we initiate after the sale of product to the distributor and prior to resale by the distributor. We record end of period accruals for each of the programs based upon our estimate of future credits under the programs that will be attributable to sales recorded through the end of the period. We calculate reductions of revenue attributable to each of the programs during any period by computing the change in the accruals from the prior period and adding the credits actually given to distributors during the period under the programs. These procedures require the exercise of significant judgments, but we believe they enable us to reasonably estimate future credits under the programs. Recording and monitoring of these accruals takes place at our subsidiaries and divisions, with input from sales and marketing personnel and review, assessment, and, if necessary, adjustment by corporate management. While our subsidiaries and divisions utilize different methodologies based on their individual experiences, all of the methodologies take into account certain elements that management considers relevant, such as sales to distributors during the relevant period, inventory levels at the distributors, current and projected market trends and conditions, recent and historical activity under the relevant programs, changes in program policies, and open requests for credits. In our judgment, the different methodologies provide us with equally reliable estimates upon which to base our accruals. We do not track the credits that we record against specific products sold from distributor inventories, so as to directly compare revenue reduction for credits recorded during any period with credits ultimately awarded in respect of products sold during that period. Nevertheless, we believe that we have an adequate basis to assess the reasonableness and reliability of our estimates. We recognize royalty revenue in accordance with agreed upon terms when performance obligations are satisfied, the amount is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. We earn royalties at the point of sale of products which incorporate licensed intellectual property. The amount of royalties recognized is determined based on our licensees periodic reporting to us and judgments and estimates by our management that we believe are reasonable. However, it is possible that actual results may differ from our estimates. 44 Contents   Inventories and Purchase Commitments We value our inventories at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined under the first-in, first-out method and market based upon net realizable value. The valuation of our inventories requires our management to make market estimates. For work in process goods, we are required to estimate the cost to completion of the products and the prices at which we will be able to sell the products. For finished goods, we must assess the prices at which we believe the inventory can be sold. Inventories are also adjusted for estimated obsolescence and written down to net realizable value based upon estimates of future demand, technology developments and market conditions. Certain metals used in the manufacture of our products are traded on active markets, and can be subject to significant price volatility. Our policy is to enter into short-term commitments to purchase defined portions of annual consumption of these metals if market prices decline below budget. We record losses and related liabilities when the contractually obligated purchase price under our purchase commitments exceed quoted market prices for the metals. Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of a business acquired over the fair value of the related net assets at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is not amortized but rather tested for impairment at least annually. These impairment tests must be performed more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. GAAP prescribes a two-step method for determining goodwill impairment. In the first step, we determine the fair value of the reporting unit and compare the fair value to the net book value of the reporting unit. The fair value of the reporting unit is determined using various valuation techniques, including a comparable companies market multiple approach and a discounted cash flow analysis (an income approach). The comparable companies utilized in our evaluation are generally the members of our peer group included in the presentation of our stock performance graph in Item 5 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K. In step two, we determine the implied fair value of goodwill in the same manner as if we had acquired those business units. Specifically, we must allocate the fair value of the reporting unit to all of the assets of that unit, including any unrecognized intangible assets, in a hypothetical calculation that would yield the implied fair value of goodwill. The impairment loss is measured as the difference between the book value of the goodwill and the implied fair value of the goodwill computed in step two. Fair value of reporting units, and the underlying assets and liabilities of those reporting units, is measured at a point in time, and reflects specific market conditions as of the measurement date. We perform our annual impairment test as of the first day of the fourth fiscal quarter. Subsequent to recording impairment charges in 2008, there was no remaining goodwill recorded on the consolidated balance sheet until the acquisition of the resistors businesses of Huntington Electric, Inc. on September 28, 2011. The determination of the fair value of the reporting units and the allocation of that value to individual assets and liabilities within those reporting units requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions primarily include, but are not limited to: the selection of appropriate peer group companies; control premiums appropriate for acquisitions in the industries in which we compete; the discount rate; terminal growth rates; and forecasts of revenue, operating income, depreciation and amortization, and capital expenditures. The allocation requires several analyses to determine fair value of assets and liabilities including, among others, completed technology, tradenames, in-process research and development, customer relationships, and certain property and equipment (valued at replacement costs).  Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making these estimates, actual financial results could differ from those estimates. In addition, changes in assumptions concerning future financial results or other underlying assumptions could have a significant impact on either the fair value of the reporting unit or the amount of the goodwill impairment charge. 45 Contents   Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets We assess the impairment of our long-lived assets, other than goodwill and tradenames, including property and equipment, long-term prepaid assets, and identifiable intangible assets subject to amortization, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Long-lived assets are grouped at the lowest level of independent cash flows and evaluated as a group. Factors we consider important, which could trigger an impairment review, include significant changes in the manner of our use of the assets, changes in historical or projected operating performance, and significant negative economic trends. The carrying value of a long-lived asset group is considered impaired when the total projected undiscounted cash flows from such asset group are separately identifiable and are less than the carrying value. In that event, a loss is recognized based on the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair market value of the long-lived asset group, primarily determined using discounted future cash flows. Indefinite-lived intangible assets (which for us are comprised entirely of tradenames) are not amortized, but similar to goodwill, are tested for impairment at least annually. These tests are performed more frequently if there are triggering events. The fair value of the tradenames is measured as the discounted cash flow savings realized from owning such tradenames and not having to pay a royalty for their use. The evaluation of the recoverability of long-lived assets, and the determination of their fair value, requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions primarily include, but are not limited to: the identification of the asset group at the lowest level of independent cash flows and the principal asset of the group; the discount rate; terminal growth rates; and forecasts of revenue, operating income, depreciation and amortization, and capital expenditures. The evaluation of the fair value of indefinite-lived trademarks also requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions primarily include, but are not limited to: the assumed market-royalty rate; the discount rate; terminal growth rates; and forecasts of revenue. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making these estimates, actual results could differ from those estimates. In addition, changes in underlying assumptions would have a significant impact on the conclusion that an asset groups carrying value is recoverable, that an indefinite-lived asset is not impaired, or the determination of any impairment charge if it was determined that the asset values were indeed impaired. Accounts Receivable Our accounts receivable represent a significant portion of our current assets. We are required to estimate the collectibility of our receivables and to establish allowances for the amount of receivables that will prove uncollectible. We base these allowances on our historical collection experience, the length of time our receivables are outstanding, the financial circumstances of individual customers, and general business and economic conditions. Due to our large number of customers and their dispersion across many countries and industries, we have limited exposure to concentrations of credit risk. As of December 31, 2011, one customer comprised 10.9% of our accounts receivable balance. This customer comprised 8.7% of our accounts receivable balance as of December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2010, no customer comprised greater than 10% of our accounts receivable balance. We continually monitor the credit risks associated with our accounts receivable and adjust the allowance for uncollectible accounts accordingly. We believe that our accounts receivable credit risk exposure beyond such allowance is not material to the financial statements. 46 Contents   Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits Accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans involves numerous assumptions and estimates. The discount rate at which obligations could effectively be settled and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets are two critical assumptions in measuring the cost and benefit obligations of our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Other important assumptions include the anticipated rate of future increases in compensation levels, estimated mortality, and for postretirement medical plans, increases or trends in health care costs. Management reviews these assumptions at least annually. We use independent actuaries to assist us in formulating assumptions and making estimates. These assumptions are updated periodically to reflect the actual experience and expectations on a plan specific basis as appropriate. Our defined benefit plans are concentrated in the United States, Germany, and the Republic of China (Taiwan). Plans in these countries comprise approximately 95% of our retirement obligations at December 31, 2011. In the U.S., we utilize published long-term high quality bonds to determine the discount rate at the measurement date. In Germany and the Republic of China (Taiwan), we utilize published long-term government bond rates to determine the discount rate at the measurement date. We utilize bond yields at various maturity dates that reflect the timing of expected future benefit payments. We believe the discount rates selected are the rates at which these obligations could effectively be settled. Within the U.S., we establish strategic asset allocation percentage targets and appropriate benchmarks for significant asset classes with the aim of achieving a prudent balance between return and risk. Many of our non-U.S. plans are unfunded based on local laws and customs. For those non-U.S. plans that do maintain investments, their asset holdings are primarily cash and fixed income securities, based on local laws and customs. We set the expected long-term rate of return based on the expected long-term average rates of return to be achieved by the underlying investment portfolios. In establishing this rate, we consider historical and expected returns for the asset classes in which the plans are invested, advice from pension consultants and investment advisors, and current economic and capital market conditions. The expected return on plan assets is incorporated into the computation of pension expense. The difference between this expected return and the actual return on plan assets is deferred. The net deferral of past asset losses (gains) affects the calculated value of plan assets and, ultimately, future pension expense (income). We expect an increase in net periodic pension cost in 2012 as a result of the amortization of unrecognized losses. During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2008, we adopted amendments to our principal U.S. defined benefit pension plans, such that effective January 1, 2009, the plans were frozen. Pursuant to these amendments, no new employees may participate in the plans, no further participant contributions will be required or permitted, and no further benefits shall accrue after December 31, 2008. As a result of these amendments, net periodic pension cost for 2011, 2010, and 2009 did not include any service cost for the U.S. plans. We believe that the current assumptions used to estimate plan obligations and annual expenses are appropriate. However, if economic conditions change or if our investment strategy changes, we may be inclined to change some of our assumptions, and the resulting change could have a material impact on the consolidated statements of operations and on the consolidated balance sheet. 47 Contents   Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We establish reserves for tax-related uncertainties based on estimates of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. These reserves are established when we believe that certain positions might be challenged despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances and the provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate. These accruals are based on managements best estimate of potential tax exposures. When particular matters arise, a number of years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved. Favorable resolution of such matters could be recognized as a reduction to our effective tax rate in the year of resolution. Unfavorable resolution of any particular issue could increase the effective tax rate and may require the use of cash in the year of resolution.  We file U.S. federal income tax returns, as well as income tax returns in multiple U.S. state and foreign jurisdictions. The U.S. Internal Revenue Service concluded its examinations of our U.S. federal tax returns for all tax years through 2002. Because of net operating losses, which were fully utilized on the 2010 tax return, our U.S. federal tax returns for 2003 and later years remain subject to examination. Examinations of most principal subsidiaries in Israel through the 2007 tax year were concluded in 2010, and we have been notified that an audit of the 2008 through 2010 tax years will commence in early 2012. The tax returns of significant non-U.S. subsidiaries are currently under examination in Germany (2005 through 2008), India (2004 through 2009), China (2006), and the Republic of China (Taiwan) (2006 through 2010). We are also subject to income taxes in other taxing jurisdictions in the U.S. and around the world, many of which are still open to examinations. We account for uncertainty in income tax positions using the minimum recognition threshold a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial statements as prescribed in GAAP. For a tax benefit to be recognized, a tax position must be more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities. We have recorded deferred tax assets representing future tax benefits, but may not be able to realize these future tax benefits in certain jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining the expected future realizability of these deferred tax assets. We periodically evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets by assessing the valuation allowance and by adjusting the amount of such allowance, if necessary. The factors used to assess the likelihood of realization include deferred tax liabilities, our forecast of future taxable income, and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the net deferred tax assets. Substantially all earnings generated by our non-U.S. subsidiaries are deemed to be reinvested outside of the United States indefinitely. Accordingly, no provision has been made for U.S. federal and state income taxes on these foreign earnings. Upon distribution of those earnings in the form of dividends or otherwise, we would be subject to U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits), state income taxes, incremental foreign income taxes, and withholding taxes payable to various foreign countries. Additional information about income taxes is included in Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements. 48 Contents   Results of Operations Statement of operations captions as a percentage of net revenues and the effective tax rates were as follows:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  Net Revenues Net revenues were as follows (dollars in thousands):  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  Changes in net revenues were attributable to the following:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  Our results for the year ended December 31, 2011 represent the effects of macroeconomic concerns, which reduced demand for our products in the last six fiscal months of the year, and the resulting quick adaptation of our manufacturing capacities in response thereto. This period of macroeconomic concerns followed a period of favorable business conditions through the first six fiscal months of the year in which we achieved significantly higher annualized earnings than before the beginning of the 2008-2009 global economic recession at the same sales volume. 49 Contents   The recovery of our business that we began experiencing in the second half of 2009 continued throughout 2010 due to historically high overall demand for electronic components, a favorable pricing environment, and the effects of our restructuring programs initiated in the prior year and our on-going cost controlling programs. Our results in 2010 and 2011 were dramatically improved versus our 2009 results, which were substantially impacted by the 2008-2009 global economic recession. We deduct, from the sales that we record to distributors, allowances for future credits that we expect to provide for returns, scrapped product, and price adjustments under various programs made available to the distributors. We make deductions corresponding to particular sales in the period in which the sales are made, although the corresponding credits may not be issued until future periods. We estimate the deductions based on sales levels to distributors, inventory levels at the distributors, current and projected market trends and conditions, recent and historical activity under the relevant programs, changes in program policies, and open requests for credits. We recorded deductions from gross sales under our distributor incentive programs of $80.3 million, $71.8 million, and $59.6 million, for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively, or, as a percentage of gross sales, 3.0%, 2.6%, and 2.8%, respectively. Actual credits issued under the programs for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 were approximately $82.3 million, $60.9 million, and $67.5 million, respectively. Increases and decreases in these incentives are largely attributable to the then-current business climate. Royalty revenues, included in net revenues on the consolidated statements of operations, were $6.6 million, $5.8 million, and $5.7 million, for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Gross Profit and Margins Gross profit margins for the year ended December 31, 2011 were 27.8%, as compared to 29.6% for year ended December 31, 2010. The gross profit margin for the year ended December 31, 2010 was 29.4% excluding VPG. This decrease in gross profit margin reflects lower volume and slightly higher materials prices. Gross profit margins for the year ended December 31, 2010 were 29.6%, as compared to 19.0% for year ended December 31, 2009. This increase in gross profit margin reflects manufacturing efficiencies from significantly higher volume, increased average selling prices, and the effects of our fixed cost reduction programs initiated in prior years. 50 Contents   Segments Analysis of revenues and gross profit margins for our segments is provided below. MOSFETs Net revenues of the MOSFETs segment were as follows (dollars in thousands):  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  Changes in MOSFETs segment net revenues were attributable to the following:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues for the MOSFETs segment was as follows:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  The MOSFETs segment is the segment most adversely affected by the decreased demand for consumer goods and the reduction in distribution orders in the second half of 2011. The decrease in gross profit margin from 2010 to 2011 reflects significantly lower volume and average selling prices from the historically high prices of 2010. The increase in gross profit margin from 2009 to 2010 reflects significantly higher volume, increased average selling prices, improved product mix, and the effects of our fixed cost reduction programs. The return of the typical pricing pressure for our established MOSFETs products has reduced average selling prices from the historically high levels experienced beginning in 2010. We have experienced a normal price decline versus the prior year. 51 Contents   Diodes Net revenues of the Diodes segment were as follows (dollars in thousands):  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  Changes in Diodes segment net revenues were attributable to the following:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues for the Diodes segment was as follows:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  The Diodes segment was adversely affected by the reduction in distribution orders in the second half of 2011. The increase in gross profit margin from 2010 to 2011 is primarily due to increased average selling prices, partially offset by a decrease in sales volume. The increase in gross profit margin from 2009 to 2010 reflects significantly higher volume, increased average selling prices, improved product mix, and the effects of our fixed cost reduction programs. After a period of increasing average selling prices in 2010, typical pricing pressure for our established Diodes products has returned. Average selling prices remain moderately higher versus 2010 due to the higher average selling prices in the first six fiscal months of 2011 versus 2010. Low order rates have reduced the backlog to a normal level. 52 Contents   Optoelectronic Components Net revenues of the Optoelectronic Components segment were as follows (dollars in thousands):  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  Changes in Optoelectronic Components segment net revenues were attributable to the following:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues for the Optoelectronic Components segment was as follows:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  The Optoelectronic Components segment was adversely affected by the decreased demand for consumer goods in the second half of 2011, but benefited from the continued strong demand from the automotive and industrial markets. Despite some fluctuations in demand, gross profit margin remained relatively steady in 2011. The slight decrease in gross profit margin versus 2010 is primarily due to a reduction from historically high average selling prices versus the prior periods. The increase in gross profit margin from 2009 to 2010 reflects significantly higher volume, improved product mix, and the effects of our fixed cost reduction programs, partially offset by modestly lower average selling prices and exchange rate effects. After a period of historically high average selling prices in 2010, typical pricing pressure for our established Optoelectronic Components products has returned. Due to a low order volume, the backlog has returned to a normal level. 53 Contents   Resistors & Inductors Net revenues of the Resistors & Inductors segment were as follows (dollars in thousands):  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  Changes in Resistors & Inductors segment net revenues were attributable to the following:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues for the Resistors & Inductors segment was as follows:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  The Resistors & Inductors segment was adversely affected by the economic slowdown in the second half of 2011, but continues to produce strong results. The decrease in gross profit margin from 2010 to 2011 is primarily due to a slight decrease in volume. The increase in gross profit margin from 2009 to 2010 reflects significantly higher volume, the effects of our fixed cost reduction programs, and improved product mix, partially offset by foreign currency effects. Average selling prices remained relatively consistent versus 2010. Due to a lower order volume, the backlog has returned to a normal level. The results of the Resistors & Inductors segment will be strengthened by the acquisitions of Huntington Electric in the third fiscal quarter of 2011 and HiRel Systems in the first fiscal quarter of 2012. Huntington Electric expands our power resistor specialty product portfolio, while HiRel Systems expands our magnetics and power supplies specialty product portfolio. 54 Contents   Capacitors Net revenues of the Capacitors segment were as follows (dollars in thousands):  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  Changes in Capacitors segment net revenues were attributable to the following:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues for the Capacitors segment was as follows:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  The Capacitors segment was adversely affected by high distributor inventory levels in the second half of 2011. The increase in gross profit margin from 2010 to 2011 is primarily due to increased average selling prices, which more than offset the lower volume. Significantly higher volume, increased average selling prices, and the effects of our fixed cost reduction programs, partially offset by foreign currency effects, have led to the increase in gross margin from 2009 to 2010. Due to a lower order volume, the backlog has returned to a normal level. Average selling prices remain stable, substantially higher than 2010. 55 Contents   Vishay Precision Group We completed the spin-off of VPG on July 6, 2010. Net revenues and gross margin percentage for the periods that VPG was included in our consolidated results were as follows (dollars in thousands):  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses Selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) expenses are summarized as follows (dollars in thousands):  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  VPG accounted for $35.4 million (including $8.4 million of costs associated with the spin-off) and $43.4 million, respectively, of SG&A expenses for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. The overall increase in SG&A expenses, excluding VPG, in the year ended December 31, 2011 versus the year ended December 31, 2010 is primarily attributable to foreign currency effects. The increase in SG&A as a percentage of revenues is primarily due to the decrease in revenues. The overall increase in SG&A expenses, excluding VPG, in the year ended December 31, 2010 versus the year ended December 31, 2009 is primarily attributable to the resumption of bonus programs and the discontinuation of short-work and temporary shut-downs, which is partially offset by the effects of our cost controlling initiatives. The decrease in SG&A as a percentage of revenues is primarily due to the increase in revenues and the effects of our cost controlling initiatives. Several items included in SG&A expenses impact the comparability of these amounts, as summarized below (in thousands):  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  The decrease in amortization expense in 2011 versus 2010 is principally due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized, partially offset by the amortization of intangible assets recognized in the acquisition of the resistor businesses of Huntington Electric in September 2011. The decrease in amortization expense in 2010 versus 2009 is principally due to the distribution of intangible assets to VPG in connection with the spin-off. 56 Contents   Other Income (Expense) 2011 Compared to 2010 Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased by $8.2 million versus the year ended December 31, 2010. The increase is primarily due to interest on convertible senior debentures due 2040 and due 2041 that were issued on November 9, 2010 and May 13, 2011, respectively. The following table analyzes the components of the line Other on the consolidated statements of operations (in thousands):  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  In the year ended December 31, 2011, we sold ancillary investments in the equity of two companies located outside of the U.S. for a total gain of $1.4 million. The increase in interest income in 2011 is primarily due to the interest earned on the short-term investments purchased in 2011. In the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded a $1.7 million loss on the early extinguishment of debt equal to the balance of unamortized deferred financing costs associated with a revolving credit commitment and term loan at the date of termination. 2010 Compared to 2009 Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased by $0.7 million versus the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase is primarily due to interest on convertible senior debentures due 2040 that were issued on November 9, 2010. The following table analyzes the components of the line Other on the consolidated statements of operations (in thousands):  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  57 Contents   Income Taxes For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the effective tax rates were 27.5% and 11.2%, respectively. The effective tax rates are less than the U.S. statutory rate primarily because of earnings in foreign jurisdictions and the release of deferred tax asset valuation allowances. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded a negative effective tax rate, tax expense on a pre-tax loss, primarily because we recorded tax expense on earnings in certain jurisdictions while realizing losses in other jurisdictions without recording tax benefits. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2009 was -42.3%. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we recognized no tax benefit associated with the executive employment agreement charge of $57.8 million discussed in Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements. We recorded no tax expense associated with the gain of $28.2 million recognized upon reimbursement of purchase price described in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements. Income tax expense for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 include certain discrete tax items for changes in uncertain tax positions, valuation allowances, tax rates, and other related items. These items total $3.5 million, $(59.5) million (tax benefit), and $2.0 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the discrete items included a $10.0 million expense for the effect of a tax rate change on deferred taxes in Israel recorded in the first fiscal quarter, reduced by $1.0 million for a 2010 tax return filing in the fourth fiscal quarter, and partially offset by benefits related to reductions of valuation allowances in various jurisdictions of $5.5 million recorded in the fourth fiscal quarter. The reductions of valuation allowances were principally in Belgium due to expected future income from a pending real estate sale. The discrete items for the year ended December 31, 2010 were recorded in the fourth fiscal quarter and related primarily to the release of valuation allowances in the U.S. and Israel. The discrete item for the year ended December 31, 2009 represents the effect of a rate change on deferred taxes. We operate in a global environment with significant operations in various locations outside the United States. Accordingly, the consolidated income tax rate is a composite rate reflecting our earnings and the applicable tax rates in the various locations where we operate. Part of our strategy is to achieve cost savings through the transfer and expansion of manufacturing operations to countries where we can take advantage of lower labor costs and available tax and other government-sponsored incentives. Accordingly, our effective tax rate is generally less than the U.S. statutory tax rate. Changes in the effective tax rate are largely attributable to changes in the mix of pretax income among our various taxing jurisdictions. Additional information about income taxes is included in Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements. 58 Contents   Financial Condition, Liquidity, and Capital Resources We focus on our ability to generate cash flows from operations. The cash generated from operations is used to fund our capital expenditure plans, and cash in excess of our capital expenditure needs is available to fund our acquisition strategy and to reduce debt levels. We have generated cash flows from operations in excess of $200 million in each of the past 10 years, and cash flows from operations in excess of $100 million in each of the past 17 years. A portion of the cash flows from operations was generated by VPG which was spun off on July 6, 2010. We refer to the amount of cash generated from operations in excess of our capital expenditure needs and net of proceeds from the sale of assets as free cash, a measure which management uses to evaluate our ability to fund acquisitions, repay debt, and otherwise enhance stockholder value through stock repuchases or dividends. Vishay has generated positive free cash in each of the past 15 years, and free cash in excess of $80 million in each of the past 10 years. In this volatile economic environment, we continue to focus on the generation of free cash, including an emphasis on cost controls. We continued to generate strong cash flows from operations and free cash during the year ended December 31, 2011. There is no assurance, however, that we will be able to continue to generate cash flows from operations and free cash at the same levels, or at all, going forward if the current economic environment worsens. During the second fiscal quarter of 2011, we capitalized on favorable conditions and enhanced stockholder value by repurchasing shares of our common stock. On May 13, 2011, we completed the offering of $150 million principal amount of 2.25% convertible senior debentures due 2041 to qualified institutional investors. We used the net proceeds from this offering, together with cash on hand, to repurchase 8,620,689 shares of common stock at $17.40 per share for an aggregate purchase price of $150 million. The use of low-coupon, long-dated convertible debentures was a more efficient means to finance the repurchase versus repatriation of non-U.S. cash. See Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements. We maintain a credit facility, which provides a revolving commitment of up to $450 million through December 1, 2015. The credit facility also provides for the ability for us to request up to $100 million of incremental commitments, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, $155 million and $240 million, respectively, was outstanding under the credit facility. Borrowings under the credit facility bear interest at LIBOR plus an interest margin. The applicable interest margin is based on our then current leverage ratio. Based on our current leverage ratio, borrowings bear interest at LIBOR plus 1.65%. The interest rate on our borrowings will increase if our leverage ratio exceeds 1.50 to 1. We are also required to pay facility commitment fees of 0.35% per annum on the entire commitment amount. The borrowings under the credit facility are secured by a lien on substantially all assets located in the United States, including accounts receivable, inventory, machinery and equipment, and general intangibles (but excluding real estate, intellectual property registered or licensed for use in, or arising under the laws of, any country other than the United States, and bank and securities accounts) of Vishay and certain significant domestic subsidiaries, and pledges of stock in certain significant domestic and foreign subsidiaries and are guaranteed by certain significant subsidiaries. Certain of our subsidiaries are permitted to borrow under the credit facility, subject to the satisfaction of specified conditions. Any borrowings by these subsidiaries under the credit facility will be guaranteed by Vishay. The credit facility includes restrictions on, among other things, incurring indebtedness, incurring liens on assets, making investments and acquisitions, making asset sales, and paying cash dividends and making other restricted payments. On September 8, 2011, we entered into an amendment to our credit facility that effectively permits us to repurchase up to $300 million of additional shares, conditioned upon maintaining specific pro forma financial ratios and a required minimum amount of available liquidity, as defined in the amendment. The credit facility also requires us to comply with other covenants, including the maintenance of specific financial ratios. 59 Contents   The financial maintenance covenants include (a) an interest expense coverage ratio of not less than 2.00 to 1; and (b) a leverage ratio of not more than 3.25 to 1 (and a pro forma ratio of 2.75 to 1 on the date of incurrence of additional debt). The computation of these ratios is prescribed in Article 6 of the Credit Agreement between Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., which has been filed with the SEC as Exhibit 10.1 to our current report on Form 8-K filed December 1, 2010. We were in compliance with all covenants under the credit facility at December 31, 2011. Our interest expense coverage ratio and leverage ratio were 21.18 to 1 and 1.10 to 1, respectively. We expect to continue to be in compliance with these covenants based on current projections. If we are not in compliance with all of the required financial covenants, the credit facility could be terminated by the lenders, and all amounts outstanding pursuant to the credit facility could become immediately payable. Additionally, our exchangeable unsecured notes due 2102 and our convertible senior debentures due 2040 and due 2041 have cross-default provisions that could accelerate repayment in the event the indebtedness under the credit facility is accelerated. In 2011, we began investing a portion of our excess cash in highly liquid, high-quality instruments with maturities greater than 90 days, but less than 1 year, which we classify as short-term investments on our consolidated balance sheet. As these investments were funded using a portion of excess cash and represent a significant aspect of our cash management strategy, we include the investments in the calculation of net cash and short-term investments (debt). The following table summarizes the components of net cash and short-term investments (debt) at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 (in thousands):  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  ____________________________ *Represents the carrying amount of the convertible debentures, which is comprised of the principal amount of the debentures, net of the unamortized discount and the associated embedded derivative liability. Measurements such as free cash and net cash and short-term investments (debt) do not have uniform definitions and are not recognized in accordance with GAAP. Such measures should not be viewed as alternatives to GAAP measures of performance or liquidity. However, management believes that free cash is a meaningful measure of our ability to fund acquisitions, repay debt, and otherwise enhance stockholder value through stock repurchases or dividends, and that an analysis of net cash and short-term investments (debt) assists investors in understanding aspects of our cash and debt management. These measures, as calculated by us, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Approximately 88% of our December 31, 2011 cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments balances were held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries. On January 13, 2012, we used approximately $85 million of cash on-hand to acquire HiRel Systems LLC. This acquisition reduced our U.S. cash position. At the present time, we expect the remaining cash and profits generated by foreign subsidiaries will continue to be reinvested outside of the United States indefinitely. If additional cash is needed to be repatriated to the United States, we would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits), state income taxes, incremental foreign income taxes, and withholding taxes payable to various foreign countries. Our financial condition as of December 31, 2011 continued to be strong, with a current ratio (current assets to current liabilities) of 4.2 to 1, as compared to a ratio of 3.4 to 1 as of December 31, 2010. This increase is primarily due to an increase in cash from operations and other changes in working capital. Our ratio of total debt to Vishay stockholders equity was 0.25 to 1 at December 31, 2011 as compared to a ratio of 0.29 to 1 at December 31, 2010. This decrease is primarily due the amounts repaid on the Credit Facility, partially offset by the issuance of the convertible debentures due 2041 and an increase in stockholders equity primarily driven by net earnings available to Vishay stockholders. 60 Contents   Cash flows provided by continuing operating activities were $376.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to cash flows provided by operations of $545.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. This decrease is principally due to $120.3 million less net earnings generated in 2011. Cash paid for property and equipment for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $168.6 million, as compared to $145.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Due to some macroeconomic uncertainties, we expect capital spending to decrease to approximately $150 million in 2012. The interest rates on our short-term investments average 2.2% and are approximately 150 basis points higher than interest rates on our cash accounts. Transactions related to these investments are classified as investing activities on our consolidated statement of cash flows. Cash provided by investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 includes a net cash inflow of $15.0 million, representing the receipt of the term loan extended to KEMET as part of the wet tantalum business acquisition in 2008. Cash provided by investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 includes a net cash inflow of $28.2 million, representing a partial refund of purchase price, net of related expenses, subsequent to entering a settlement agreement with International Rectifier Corporation. The settlement and loan repayment are more fully described in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements. Cash used by discontinued operating activities of $0.1 million and $3.2 million for years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, reflect payments to settle certain outstanding disputes with the buyer of the ASBU business. The expenses associated with these cash payments were accrued in the fourth quarter of 2008. In December 2010, we borrowed $240 million under our revolving credit facility to repay the outstanding amounts under our previous credit facility. We borrowed $55 million and repaid $140 million on our credit facility during the year ended December 31, 2011. The average outstanding balance on our credit facility calculated at fiscal month-ends was $193 million and the highest amount outstanding on our credit facility at a month end was $240 million. Management expects to continue to maintain an outstanding balance of at least $100 million on the credit facility, and may periodically pay down the balance with available cash or use the credit facility to meet short-term financing needs. We expect that cash on-hand and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our longer-term financing needs related to normal operating requirements, obligations under restructuring and acquisition integration programs, and our research and development and capital expenditure plans. Acquisition activity or share repurchases may require additional borrowing under our credit facility or may otherwise require us to incur additional debt. 61 Contents    Contractual Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2011 we had contractual obligations as follows (in thousands):  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  Commitments for long-term debt are based on the amount required to settle the obligation. Accordingly, the discounts associated with our convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2041 are excluded from the calculation of long-term debt commitments in the table above. Commitments for interest payments on long-term debt are cash commitments based on the stated maturity dates of each agreement, one of which bears a maturity date of 2102, and include commitment fees under our revolving credit facility, which expires on December 1, 2015. Commitments for interest payments on long-term debt exclude non-cash interest expense related to the amortization of the discount associated with our convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2041. Various factors could have a material effect on the amount of future principal and interest payments. Among other things, approximately $520 million of our outstanding debt instruments are convertible into or exchangeable for common stock at the option of the holder. Also, although we intend to net share settle our convertible senior debentures due 2040 and due 2041, we have the option to settle these instruments in shares of common stock pursuant to the indenture governing these debentures. Additionally, interest commitments for our variable-rate exchangeable notes due 2102 and revolving credit facility are based on the rate prevailing at December 31, 2011, but actual rates are variable and are certain to change over time. Our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2011 includes approximately $53.8 million of liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions in multiple taxing jurisdictions where we conduct business. We expect to pay $6.3 million of the liabilities in 2012 due to the settlement of tax audits. Due to the uncertain and complex application of tax regulations, combined with the difficulty in predicting when tax audits throughout the world may be concluded, we cannot make reliable estimates of the timing of the remaining cash outflows relating to these liabilities. Accordingly, the remaining uncertain tax positions are classified as payments due after five years, although actual timing of payments may be sooner. There are certain guarantees and indemnifications extended among Vishay and VPG in accordance with the terms of the Master Separation and Distribution Agreement and the Tax Matters Agreement. The guarantees primarily relate to certain contingent tax liabilities included in the Tax Matters Agreement. See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the Tax Matters Agreement. These obligations were not material to us as of December 31, 2011, and are included in the uncertain tax positions disclosed above. We maintain long-term foundry agreements with subcontractors to ensure access to external front-end capacity for our semiconductor products. The purchase commitments in the table above include the estimated minimum commitments for silicon wafers under these agreements. Our actual purchases in future periods are expected to be greater than these minimum commitments. 62 Contents   GAAP requires that management evaluate if purchase commitments are at prices in excess of current market price. The purchase commitments for silicon wafers described above are for the manufacture of proprietary products using Vishay Siliconix-owned technology licensed to this subcontractor by Siliconix, and accordingly, management can only estimate the market price of the wafers which are the subject of these commitments. Management believes that these commitments are at prices which are not in excess of estimated current market prices. As more fully described in Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements, on May 13, 2009, we entered into an amended and restated employment agreement with the late Dr. Felix Zandman, our founder and former Executive Chairman, Chief Technical and Business Development Officer. Pursuant to the amended and restated employment agreement, Dr. Zandman received $10 million upon signing the agreement and five additional annual payments of $10 million each, three of which remain to be paid to his estate as of December 31, 2011. Dr. Zandmans passing in June 2011 has no effect on the timing of these payments. For a further discussion of our long-term debt, pensions and other postretirement benefits, leases, uncertain tax positions, executive employment agreements, and purchase commitments, see Notes 5, 6, 11, and 13 to our consolidated financial statements. We do not participate in, nor have we created, any off-balance sheet variable interest entities or other off-balance sheet financing, other than the operating leases described above. Inflation Normally, inflation does not have a significant impact on our operations as our products are not generally sold on long-term contracts. Consequently, we can adjust our selling prices, to the extent permitted by competition, to reflect cost increases caused by inflation. See also Commodity Price Risk included in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for additional related information. Recent Accounting Pronouncements As more fully described in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements, new accounting guidance became effective in 2011 or will become effective in future periods. In May 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2011-4, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820), Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRS. The ASU generally aligns the principles for fair value measurements and the related disclosure requirements under GAAP and IFRS. The updated guidance clarifies existing fair value measurement and disclosure requirements and requires additional disclosure requirements. The ASU is effective for us for interim and annual periods beginning after January 1, 2012. The adoption of the ASU is not expected to have any effect on our financial position, results of operations, or liquidity. In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-8, Testing Goodwill for Impairment. Under the revised guidance, we will have the option of performing a qualitative assessment before calculating the fair value of the reporting unit when testing goodwill for impairment. If we determine, on the basis of qualitative factors, that the fair value of the reporting unit is more likely than not less than the carrying amount, the two-step impairment test would be required. The ASU does not change how goodwill is calculated or assigned to reporting units, nor does it revise the requirement to test goodwill annually for impairment. In addition, the ASU does not amend the requirement to test goodwill for impairment between annual tests if events or circumstances warrant; however, it does revise the examples of events and circumstances that an entity should consider. The ASU is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests beginning after January 1, 2012. Early adoption is permitted. The adoption of the ASU is not expected to have any effect on our financial position, results of operations, or liquidity. The adoption of the new guidance described above and in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements is not expected to have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or liquidity. 63 Contents     Item 7A.     QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Item 7A.     QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK    Market Risk Disclosure We are exposed to certain financial risks, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and commodity prices. We manage our exposure to these market risks through internally established policies and procedures and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. Our policies do not allow speculation in derivative instruments for profit or execution of derivative instrument contracts for which there are no underlying exposures. We do not use financial instruments for trading purposes and we are not a party to any leveraged derivatives. We monitor our underlying market risk exposures on an ongoing basis and believe that we can modify or adapt our hedging strategies as needed. Interest Rate Risk We are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our borrowing activities and our cash balances. On a selective basis, we have in the past entered into interest rate swap or cap agreements to reduce the potential negative impact that increases in interest rates could have on our outstanding variable rate debt. As of December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 we did not have any outstanding interest rate swap or cap agreements. We are exposed to changes in interest rates on our exchangeable notes due 2102. The exchangeable notes, of which $95 million are outstanding, bear interest at LIBOR (reset quarterly). The interest paid on our credit facility is based on a LIBOR spread. At December 31, 2011, we had $155 million outstanding under the revolving credit facility. The present amounts outstanding under the revolving credit commitment bears interest at LIBOR plus 1.65%. Our convertible senior debentures due 2040 and due 2041 bear interest at a fixed rate, and accordingly are not subject to interest rate fluctuation risks. At December 31, 2011, we have $749.1 million of cash and cash equivalents and $249.1 million of short-term investments, which earn interest at various variable rates. Based on the debt and cash positions at December 31, 2011, we would expect a 50 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates to increase or decrease our annualized net earnings by approximately $2.9 million. See Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information about our long-term debt. Also see Economic Outlook and Impact on Operations and Future Financial Results included in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional discussion of market risks. 64 Contents   Foreign Exchange Risk We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks, particularly due to market values of transactions in currencies other than the functional currencies of certain subsidiaries. From time to time, we utilize forward contracts to hedge a portion of projected cash flows from these exposures. As of December 31, 2011, we did not have any outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts. Our significant foreign subsidiaries are located in Germany, Israel, and Asia. We finance our operations in Europe and certain locations in Asia in local currencies. Our operations in Israel and most significant locations in Asia are largely financed in U.S. dollars, but these subsidiaries also have significant transactions in local currencies. Our exposure to foreign currency risk is mitigated to the extent that the costs incurred and the revenues earned in a particular currency offset one another. Our exposure to foreign currency risk is more pronounced in Israel, the Czech Republic, and China because the percentage of expenses denominated in Israeli shekels, Czech koruna, and Chinese renminbi to total expenses is much greater than the percentage of sales denominated in Israeli shekels, Czech koruna, and Chinese renminbi to total sales. Therefore, if the Israeli shekel, Czech koruna, and Chinese renminbi strengthen against all or most of our other major currencies, our operating profit is reduced. We also have a higher percentage of Euro-denominated sales than expenses. Therefore, when the Euro strengthens against all or most of our other major currencies, our operating profit is increased. Accordingly, we monitor several important cross-rates. We have performed sensitivity analyses as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, using a model that measures the change in the values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar, with all other variables held constant. The foreign currency exchange rates we used were based on market rates in effect at December 31, 2011 and 2010. The sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would impact our net earnings by approximately $9.8 million and $19.9 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, although individual line items in our consolidated statement of operations would be materially affected. For example, a 10% weakening in all foreign currencies would increase the U.S. dollar equivalent of operating income generated in foreign currencies, which would be offset by foreign exchange losses of our foreign subsidiaries that have significant transactions in U.S. dollars or have the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. A change in the mix of the currencies in which we transact our business could have a material effect on the estimated impact of the hypothetical 10% movement in the value of the U.S. dollar. Furthermore, the timing of cash receipts and disbursements could result in materially different actual results versus the hypothetical 10% movement in the value of the U.S. dollar, particularly if there are significant changes in exchange rates in a short period of time. 65 Contents   Commodity Price Risk Although most materials incorporated in our products are available from a number of sources, certain materials are available only from a relatively limited number of suppliers or are subject to significant price volatility. Our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if we have difficulty obtaining these raw materials, the quality of available raw materials deteriorates, or there are significant price changes for these raw materials. The determination that any of the raw materials used in our products are conflict minerals originating from the Democratic Republic of the Congo could increase the probability that we will encounter the challenges noted above, incur additional expenses to comply with government regulations, and face public scrutiny. For periods in which the prices of these raw materials are rising, we may be unable to pass on the increased cost to our customers which would result in decreased margins for the products in which they are used. For periods in which the prices are declining, we may be required to write down our inventory carrying cost of these raw materials, since we record our inventory at the lower of cost or market. Depending on the extent of the difference between market price and our carrying cost, this write-down could have a material adverse effect on our net earnings. We also may need to record losses for adverse purchase commitments for these materials in periods of declining prices. Silicon wafers are the most important raw material for the manufacturing of our semiconductor products. Silicon wafers are manufactured from high-purity silicon, a metalloid. There have at times been industry-wide shortages of high-purity silicon resulting primarily from growing demand of the electronic component and solar power industries, and limited growth in high-purity silicon manufacturing capacities. Shifts in demand for high-purity silicon and in turn, silicon wafers, have resulted in significant fluctuation in prices of silicon wafers.  We are a major consumer of the worlds annual production of tantalum, a metal used in the manufacturing of tantalum capacitors. There are few suppliers that process tantalum ore into capacitor grade tantalum powder. We acquire tantalum powder and wire from all of them under short-term commitments. Palladium, a metal used to produce multi-layer ceramic capacitors, is currently found primarily in South Africa and Russia. Palladium is a commodity metal that is subject to price volatility. We periodically enter into short-term commitments to purchase palladium. Certain metals used in the manufacture of our products, such as copper, are traded on active markets, and can be subject to significant price volatility. Our policy is to enter into short-term commitments to purchase defined portions of annual consumption of these metals if market prices decline below budget. We estimate that a 10% increase or decrease in the costs of raw materials subject to commodity price risk would decrease or increase our net earnings by $10.7 million, assuming that such changes in our costs have no impact on the selling prices of our products and that we have no pending commitments to purchase metals at fixed prices.   Item 8.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA Item 1A. Risk Factors Except as set forth below, there have been no material changes to the risk factors we previously disclosed under Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, filed with the SEC on February 25, 2011. The following risk factors have been updated to reflect the passing of our founder and Executive Chairman, Dr. Felix Zandman. The holders of our Class B common stock have effective voting control of our company. We have two classes of common stock: common stock and Class B common stock. The holders of common stock are entitled to one vote for each share held, while the holders of Class B common stock are entitled to 10 votes for each share held. Currently, the holders of Class B common stock hold approximately 48.3% of the voting power of Vishay. The ownership of Class B common stock is highly concentrated, and holders of Class B common stock effectively can cause the election of directors and approve other actions as stockholders without the approval of our other stockholders. As a result of the passing of our founder and Executive Chairman, Dr. Felix Zandman, Mrs. Ruta Zandman (a member of our Board of Directors) will control the voting of, solely or on a shared basis with Marc Zandman (our Executive Chairman) and Ziv Shoshani (a member of our Board of Directors), approximately 81.9% of our Class B common stock, representing 39.7% of the total voting power of our capital stock.  Our reluctance to issue substantial additional shares in order not to dilute the interests of our existing stockholders could impede growth. Our overall long-term business strategy has historically included a strong focus on acquisitions financed alternatively through cash on hand, the incurrence of indebtedness, and the issuance of equity, directly or indirectly by refinancing acquisition debt. We may in the future be presented with attractive investment or strategic opportunities that, because of their size and our financial condition at the time, would require the issuance of substantial additional amounts of our common stock. As a result of the passing of our founder and Executive Chairman, Dr. Felix Zandman, Mrs. Ruta Zandman (a member of our Board of Directors) will control the voting of, solely or on a shared basis with Marc Zandman (our Executive Chairman) and Ziv Shoshani (a member of our Board of Directors), approximately 81.9% of our Class B common stock, representing 39.7% of the total voting power of our capital stock. Such holders may exert considerable influence over the Companys policies, business and affairs, and in any corporate transaction or other matter, including those described above. If such opportunities were to arise, our Board of Directors may consider the potentially dilutive effect on the interests and voting power of our existing stockholders, including our Class B stockholders. Any resulting reluctance to issue additional shares could impede our future growth. Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds PART I   Item 1.     BUSINESS    Our Business Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. (Vishay, the Company, we, us, or our) is a leading global manufacturer and supplier of discrete semiconductors and passive components. Semiconductors include MOSFETs, diodes, and optoelectronic components. Passive components include resistive products, capacitors, and inductors. Discrete semiconductors and passive components are essential elements of virtually every type of electronic circuit. They support the microprocessor chips and other integrated circuits (ICs) that coordinate and control the functions of electronic devices and equipment. We offer our customers one-stop shop access to one of the most comprehensive electronic component product lines of any manufacturer in the United States, Europe, and Asia. Our semiconductor components are used for a wide variety of functions, including power control, power conversion, power management, signal switching, signal routing, signal blocking, signal amplification, two-way data transfer, one-way remote control, and circuit isolation. Our passive components are used to restrict current flow, suppress voltage increases, store and discharge energy, control alternating current (AC) and voltage, filter out unwanted electrical signals, and perform other functions. Our components are used in virtually every type of product that contains electronic circuitry, in the industrial, computing, automotive, consumer, telecommunications, power supplies, military, aerospace, and medical markets. On July 6, 2010, we completed the spin-off of our measurements and foil resistor businesses into an independent, publicly-traded company named Vishay Precision Group, Inc. (Vishay Precision Group or VPG) through a tax- free stock dividend to our stockholders. The Vishay Story In the 1950s, the late Dr. Felix Zandman, Vishays founder, was issued patents for his PhotoStress coatings and instruments, used to reveal and measure the distribution of stresses in structures such as airplanes and cars under live load conditions. His research in this area led him to develop Bulk Metal foil resistors  ultra-precise, ultra-stable resistors with performance far beyond any other resistor available to date. In 1962, Dr. Zandman, with the financial help of the late Alfred P. Slaner, founded Vishay to develop and manufacture Bulk Metal foil resistors. Concurrently, J.E. Starr developed foil resistance strain gages, which also became part of Vishay. Throughout the 1960s and 1970s, Vishay established itself as a technical and market leader in foil resistors, PhotoStress products, and strain gages. These products became part of Vishay Precision Group, which was spun off on July 6, 2010. In 1985, Vishay began to expand its product line through various strategic acquisitions, including the resistor companies Dale Electronics, Draloric Electronic, and Sfernice. In the early 1990s, Vishay applied its acquisition strategy to the capacitor market, with the major acquisitions of Sprague Electric, Roederstein, and Vitramon. In 2002, Vishay acquired BCcomponents, the former passive components business of Philips Electronics and Beyschlag, which greatly enhanced Vishays global market position in passive components. Over the years, we have made several smaller passive components acquisitions to gain market share, penetrate different geographic markets, enhance new product development, round out our product lines, or grow our high margin niche businesses. These include Electro-Films, Cera-Mite, and Spectrol in 2000; Tansitor and North American Capacitor Company (Mallory) in 2001; the thin film interconnect business of Aeroflex in 2004; Phoenix do Brasil in 2006; the wet tantalum capacitor business of KEMET Corporation in 2008; and the resistor businesses of Huntington Electric in 2011. On January 13, 2012, we acquired HiRel Systems, a leading supplier of high reliability transformers, inductors, coils, and power conversion products. 5 Contents   In the late 1990s, Vishay began expanding its product lines to include discrete semiconductors. In 1998, Vishay acquired the Semiconductor Business Group of TEMIC, which included Telefunken and an 80.4% interest in Siliconix, producers of MOSFETs, RF transistors, diodes, optoelectronics, and power and analog switching integrated circuits. Vishays next semiconductor acquisition came in 2001, with the purchase of the infrared components business of Infineon Technologies, which was followed the same year by Vishays acquisition of General Semiconductor, a leading global manufacturer of rectifiers and diodes. In 2005, Vishay made a successful tender offer for the minority interest in Siliconix. In 2007, Vishay acquired the Power Control Systems business of International Rectifier, further enhancing our product offerings. These acquisitions propelled Vishay into the top ranks of discrete semiconductor manufacturers. We also acquired several businesses as part of our Measurements Groups strategy of vertical market integration. The measurements business became part of VPG, which was spun off on July 6, 2010. On June 4, 2011, Dr. Felix Zandman passed away. Dr. Zandman will never be forgotten as his legacy will live on across the world through all Vishay employees. We will continue to implement the vision, strategy, and culture articulated by Dr. Zandman as we continue to work tirelessly to enhance value for our stockholders. In accordance with our succession plan, Marc Zandman was elected as Executive Chairman of the Board. Marc Zandman also succeeded Dr. Zandman as our Chief Business Development Officer. Dr. Gerald Paul continues to lead Vishay as our President and Chief Executive Officer. Vishay was incorporated in Delaware in 1962 and maintains its principal executive offices at 63 Lancaster Avenue, Malvern, Pennsylvania 19355-2143. Our telephone number is (610) 644-1300. Our Competitive Strengths Global Technology Leader We were founded based on the inventions of Dr. Felix Zandman and we continue to emphasize technological innovation as a driver of growth. Many of our products and manufacturing techniques, technologies, and packaging methods have been invented, designed, and developed by Dr. Zandman, our engineers, and our scientists. We are currently a worldwide technology and market leader in wirewound and other power resistors, leaded film resistors, thin film SMD resistors, wet and conformal-coated tantalum capacitors, capacitors for power electronics, power rectifiers, low-voltage power MOSFETs, and infrared components. Research and Development Provides Customer-Driven Growth Solutions We maintain strategically placed application and product support centers where proximity to customers and our manufacturing locations enables us to more easily gauge and satisfy the needs of local markets. The breadth of our product portfolio along with the proximity of our field application engineers to customers provides increased opportunities to have our components selected and designed into new end products by customers in all relevant market segments. We also maintain research and development personnel and promote programs at a number of our production facilities to develop new products and new applications of existing products, and to improve manufacturing processes and technologies. We have implemented a plan to grow our business and increase earnings per share, in part, through accelerating the development of new products and technologies and increasing design-in opportunities by expanding our technical resources for providing solutions to customers. Operational Excellence We are a leading manufacturer in our industry, with a broad product portfolio, access to a wide range of end markets and sales channels, and geographic diversity. We have solid, well-established relationships with our customers and strong distribution channels. Our senior management team is highly experienced, with deep industry knowledge. Over the past two decades, our management team has successfully restructured our company and integrated several acquisitions. We can adapt our operations to changing economic conditions, as demonstrated by the significant, rapid cost-cutting initiatives in response to the global economic recession of 2008-2009, our ability to significantly reduce working capital investment and continue to generate cash during the recession, and our ability to capitalize on improving market conditions following the global economic recession of 2008-2009. 6 Contents   Broad Market Penetration We have the broadest product line of discrete semiconductors and passive components among our competitors. Our broad product portfolio allows us to penetrate markets in all industry segments and all regions, which reduces our exposure to a particular end market or geographic location. In 2011, we implemented a plan to grow our business and increase earnings per share, in part, through improving market penetration by expanding manufacturing facilities for our most successful products and developing markets for specialty products in Asia. Our net revenues, excluding VPG, for the following applicable periods were attributable to customers in the following regions:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  The share of net revenues, excluding VPG, by end market was as follows:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  Strong Track Record of Growth through Acquisitions Since 1985, we have expanded our product line through various strategic acquisitions, growing from a small manufacturer of precision resistors and resistance strain gages to one of the worlds largest manufacturers and suppliers of a broad line of electronic components. We have successfully integrated the acquired companies within our existing management and operational structure, reducing selling, general, and administrative expenses through the integration or elimination of redundant sales and administrative functions, creating manufacturing synergies, while improving customer service. In 2011, we implemented a plan to grow our business and increase earnings per share, in part, through targeted acquisitions. We often target high margin niche business acquisitions, such as Huntington Electric and HiRel Systems, which we acquired in 2011 and 2012, respectively. Strong Free Cash Flow Generation We refer to the amount of cash generated from operations in excess of our capital expenditure needs and net of proceeds from the sale of assets as free cash. Due to our strong operational management, cost control measures, efficient capital expenditures, broad product portfolio, and strong market position, we have generated positive free cash in each of the past 15 years and free cash in excess of $80 million in each of the past 10 years. We expect the benefits of our restructuring and other cost cutting measures in prior periods and continued cost control activities (see Cost Management included in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) will continue our strong free cash generation going forward. 7 Contents   Financial Strength and Flexibility As of December 31, 2011, our cash and short-term investment balance exceeded our debt balance by $599 million. We also maintain a credit facility, which provides a revolving commitment of up to $450 million through December 1, 2015, of which $287 million was available as of December 31, 2011. Our net cash position and short-term investment balance, available revolving commitment, and strong free cash flow generation provides financial strength and flexibility and reduces our exposure to future economic uncertainties. Our Key Challenges Economic Environment Our business and operating results have been and will continue to be impacted by the global economy and in the local economies in which our customers operate. Our revenues are dependent on end markets that are impacted by consumer and industrial demand, and our operating results can be adversely affected by reduced demand in those markets. Competition Our business is highly competitive worldwide, with low transportation costs and few import barriers. Our major competitors, some of which are larger than us, have significant financial resources and technological capabilities. To continue to grow our business successfully, we need to continually develop, introduce, and market new and innovative products, to modify existing products, to respond to technological change, and to customize certain products to meet customer requirements. Continuous Innovation and Protection of Intellectual Property Our ability to compete effectively with other companies depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology. Although we have been awarded, have filed applications for, or have been licensed under, numerous patents in the United States and other countries, there can be no assurance concerning the degree of protection afforded by these patents or the likelihood that pending patents will be issued. For a more detailed discussion of the risks and uncertainties inherent in our business, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, see Risk Factors in Item 1A. Continuing to Grow through Acquisitions Our long-term historical growth in revenues and net earnings has resulted in large part from our strategy of growth through acquisitions. For this strategy to remain successful, we need to continue to identify attractive and available acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions on favorable terms, and integrate new businesses, manufacturing processes, employees, and logistical arrangements into our existing management and operating infrastructure. 8 Contents   Key Business Strategies Since our first acquisition in 1985, we have pursued a business strategy that principally consists of the following elements: Invest in Innovation to Drive Growth We expect to continue to use our research and development (R&D), engineering, and product marketing resources to continually roll out new and innovative products. Our ability to react to changing customer needs and industry trends will continue to be key to our success. We intend to leverage our insights into customer demand to continually develop new innovative products within our existing lines and to modify our existing core products to make them more appealing, addressing changing customer needs and industry trends. Cost Management Over the past several years we implemented programs to optimize our labor distribution across the globe. After successfully realigning our labor distribution, our focus is directed to controlling fixed costs and reducing variable costs. Growth through Strategic Acquisitions We expect to continue to expand within the electronic components industry, through the acquisition of other manufacturers of electronic components that have established positions in major markets, reputations for product innovation, quality, and reliability, strong customer bases, and product lines with which we have substantial marketing and technical expertise. Customer Service Excellence We maintain significant production facilities in those regions where we market the bulk of our products in order to enhance the service and responsiveness that we provide to our customers. We aim to further strengthen our relationships with customers and strategic partners by providing broad product lines that allow us to provide one-stop shop service, whereby they can streamline their design and purchasing processes by ordering multiple types of products. The growth plan that we implemented in 2011 was designed based on the tenets of the key business strategies listed above. 9 Contents   Products We design, manufacture, and market electronic components that cover a wide range of functions and technologies. Our product portfolio includes:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   We promote our ability to provide one-stop shop service to customers, whereby they can streamline their design and purchasing processes by ordering multiple types of products from Vishay. Our technical sales force consisting of field application engineers offers customers the complete breadth of the Vishay portfolio for their applications. We aim to use this broad portfolio to increase opportunities to have our components selected and designed in to new end products. 10 Contents   Product Segments Our products can be divided into two general classes: semiconductors and passive components. Semiconductors are sometimes referred to as active components because they require power to function whereas passive components do not require power to function. Our semiconductor and passive components products are further categorized based on their functionality for financial reporting purposes. See Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on revenues, income, and total assets by segment. Semiconductors Our semiconductor products include MOSFETs, Diodes, and Optoelectronic Components. Semiconductors are typically used to perform functions such as switching, amplifying, rectifying, routing, or transmitting electrical signals, power conversion, and power management. MOSFETs Segment Our MOSFETs business is a growing business in both the commodity and non-commodity markets in which we believe that we enjoy a good reputation and strong brand recognition (Siliconix). MOSFETs function as solid-state switches to control power in multiple applications, including mobile phones, notebook and desktop computers, tablet computers, digital cameras, televisions, DC/DC and AC/DC switch mode power supplies, solar inverters, automotive and industrial systems. We are a leader in low-voltage TrenchFET MOSFETs and also offer high-voltage MOSFETs. Our MOSFETs product line includes low- and medium-voltage TrenchFET MOSFETs, high-voltage planar MOSFETs, high voltage Super Junction MOSFETs, power integrated circuits (power ICs), and integrated function power devices. We are a recognized technology leader with a tradition of innovation in MOSFET wafer design, packaging, and performance. Diodes Segment Our Diodes business is a solid business with a strong market presence in both the commodity and non-commodity markets. The products that comprise our Diodes business represent our broadest product line and include rectifiers, small signal diodes, protection diodes, thyristors/SCRs and power modules. The primary application of rectifiers, found inside the power supplies of virtually all electronic equipment, is to derive DC power from the AC supply. Vishay is the worldwide leader in rectifiers, having a broad technology base and a good position in automotive, industrial, computing and consumer markets. Our rectifier innovations include TMBS using Trench MOS barrier Schottky rectifier technology, which reduces power loss and improves the efficiency of end systems and eSMP, the best in class high-current density surface mount packages. Our wide selection of small signal diodes consist of the following functions: switching, tuning, band-switching, RF attenuation and voltage regulation (Zener). They are available in various glass and plastic packaging options and generally are used in electronic circuits, where small currents and high frequencies are involved. Vishay is also one of the market leaders for TVS (transient voltage suppressor) diodes. The portfolio of protection diodes includes ESD protection and EMI filter. Our thyristors or SCR (silicon-controlled rectifiers) are very popular in the industrial high-voltage AC power control applications. The fast growing markets of solar inverter and HEV/EV are the focus of our power modules business (IGBT or MOSFET modules). These modules can be customized to fit in different customer design requirements. 11 Contents   Optoelectronics Components Segment Our Optoelectronic Components business has a strong market presence in both the commodity and non-commodity markets. Optoelectronic components emit light, detect light, or do both. Our broad range of standard and customer specific optoelectronic components includes infrared (IR) emitters and detectors, IR remote control receivers, optocouplers, solid-state relays, optical sensors, light-emitting diodes (LEDs), 7-segment displays, and IR data transceiver modules (IrDA). Our IR remote control receivers are designed for use in infrared remote control, data transmission, and light barrier applications in end products including televisions, set-top boxes, notebook computers, and audio systems. We are the leading manufacturer of IR remote control receivers. Our optocouplers electrically isolate input and output signals. Uses include switch-mode power supplies, consumer electronics, telecommunications equipment, solar inverters, and industrial systems. Our IR data transceiver modules are used for short range, two-way, high-speed, and secure wireless data transfer between electronic devices such as home medical appliances, mobile phones, industrial data loggers, and metering. Our LEDs are designed for backlighting and illumination in automotive and other applications. Our LEDs include ultra-bright as well as small surface-mount packages, with products available in all standard colors including white. Passive components Our passive components include resistors, capacitors, and magnetics such as inductors and transformers. Passive components are used to store electrical charges, to limit or resist electrical current, and to help in filtering, surge suppression, measurement, timing, and tuning applications. Resistors and Inductors Segment Our Resistors and Inductors business is our original business. We maintain the broadest portfolio of resistor products worldwide. The business is solid, predictable, and growing at stable selling prices. We are a market leader with a strong technology base, many specialty products, and strong brand recognition (Dale, Draloric, Beyschlag, Sfernice, Milwaukee, and Huntington). We focus on higher value markets in specialized industries, while maintaining a complete portfolio of commodity products. We do not aim to be the volume leader in commodity markets. Resistors are basic components used in all forms of electronic circuitry to adjust and regulate levels of voltage and current. They vary widely in precision and cost, and are manufactured from numerous materials and in many forms. Linear resistive components are classified as variable or fixed, depending on whether or not their resistance is adjustable. Non-linear resistors function by varying in resistance under influence of temperature (thermistors) or voltage (varistors). They can be used in temperature-measuring applications or as current or voltage-limiting devices. We manufacture virtually all types of fixed resistors, both in discrete and network forms, as well as many variable types. Vishay resistor innovations include Power Metal Strip technology. These resistors feature very low resistance and are used to measure changes in current flow (current sensing) or divert current flow (shunting). Inductors use an internal magnetic field to change AC current phase and resist AC current. Inductor applications include controlling AC current and voltage, filtering out unwanted electrical signals, and energy storage. Vishay inductor innovations include IHLP low-profile, high-current inductor technology with industry-leading specifications, which is patented and generates royalty revenue. Our low-profile, high-current inductors save circuit board space and power in voltage regulator module (VRM) and DC to DC converter applications. In addition, we are a worldwide leader in custom magnetic solutions focusing on high performance and high reliability. 12 Contents   Capacitors Segment Our Capacitors business consists of a broad range of reliable, high-quality products. We have a strong presence worldwide in specialty markets based on our product performance and reliability and strong brand recognition (Sprague, Vitramon, Roederstein, BCcomponents, and ESTA). We focus on higher value markets in specialized industries, while maintaining a complete portfolio of commodity products. We do not aim to be the volume leader in commodity markets. Capacitors are used in almost all electronic circuits. They store energy and discharge it when needed. Important applications for capacitors include electronic filtering for linear and switching power supplies; decoupling and bypass of electronic signals for integrated circuits and circuit boards; and frequency control, timing and conditioning of electronic signals for a broad range of applications. We manufacture products based on all major capacitor technologies: tantalum (molded chip tantalum, coated chip tantalum, solid through-hole tantalum, and wet tantalum), ceramic (multilayer chip and ceramic disc), film, power, heavy-current, and aluminum electrolytic. Our capacitors range from tiny surface-mount devices for hearing aids and mobile devices to large power correction capacitors used in renewable energy, heavy industry, and electrical power grids. We are a recognized technology leader in many product ranges, securing our strong position in military and medical markets, and in a wide range of industrial and automotive applications. Our wet tantalum and MicroTan technologies are market leaders. Military Qualifications We have qualified certain of our products under various military specifications approved and monitored by United States government agencies, and under certain European military specifications. Qualification levels are based in part upon the rate of failure of products. In order to maintain the classification level of a product, we must continuously perform tests on the product and the results of these tests must be reported to the government agencies. If the product fails to meet the requirements for the applicable classification level, the products classification may be reduced to a lower level. During the time that the classification level is reduced for a product with military application, net revenues and earnings attributable to that product may be adversely affected. Manufacturing Operations In order to better serve our customers, we maintain production facilities in locations where we market the bulk of our products, such as the United States, Germany, and Asia. To optimize production efficiencies, we have whenever practicable established manufacturing facilities in countries, such as the Czech Republic, India, Israel, Malaysia, Mexico, the Peoples Republic of China, and the Philippines, where we can benefit from lower labor and tax costs and also benefit from various government incentives, including grants and tax relief. One of our most sophisticated manufacturing operations is the production of power semiconductor components. This manufacturing process involves two phases of production: wafer fabrication and assembly (or packaging). Wafer fabrication subjects silicon wafers to various thermal, metallurgical, and chemical process steps that change their electrical and physical properties. These process steps define cells or circuits within numerous individual devices (termed dies or chips) on each wafer. Assembly is the sequence of production steps that divides the wafer into individual chips and encloses the chips in structures (termed packages) that make them usable in a circuit. Both wafer fabrication and assembly phases incorporate wafer level and device level electrical testing to ensure that device design integrity has been achieved. In the United States, our manufacturing facilities are located in California, Illinois, Indiana, Nebraska, New York, Rhode Island, South Dakota, Vermont, and Wisconsin. In Asia, our main manufacturing facilities are located in the Peoples Republic of China, the Republic of China (Taiwan), India, and Malaysia. In Europe, our main manufacturing facilities are located in Germany, France, and the Czech Republic. We have substantial manufacturing facilities in Israel (see Israeli Government Incentives below). We also have manufacturing facilities in Austria, Hungary, Italy, Mexico, the Netherlands, Portugal, and the Philippines. Over the past several years, we have invested substantial resources to increase the efficiency of our plants, which we believe will further reduce production costs. The recently acquired HiRel Systems manufacturing facilities are located in Minnesota, New Hampshire, Dominican Republic, and the Peoples Republic of China. 13 Contents   The majority of our manufacturing operations have received ISO 9001 certification and others are actively pursuing such approval.  ISO 9001 is a comprehensive set of quality program standards developed by the International Standards Organization. See Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for financial information by geographic area. Sources of Supplies Although most materials incorporated in our products are available from a number of sources, certain materials, including plastics and metals, are available only from a relatively limited number of suppliers or are subject to significant price volatility. Silicon wafers are the most important raw material for the manufacturing of our semiconductor products. Silicon wafers are manufactured from high-purity silicon, a metalloid. There have at times been industry-wide shortages of high-purity silicon resulting primarily from growing demand of the electronic component and solar power industries, and limited growth in high-purity silicon manufacturing capacities. Shifts in demand for high-purity silicon and in turn, silicon wafers, have resulted in significant fluctuation in prices of silicon wafers.  We are a major consumer of the worlds annual production of tantalum, a metal used in the manufacturing of tantalum capacitors. There are few suppliers that process tantalum ore into capacitor grade tantalum powder. We acquire tantalum powder and wire from all of them under short-term commitments. Palladium, a metal used to produce multi-layer ceramic capacitors, is currently found primarily in South Africa and Russia. Palladium is a commodity metal that is subject to price volatility. We periodically enter into short-term commitments to purchase palladium. Certain metals used in the manufacture of our products, such as copper, are traded on active markets, and can be subject to significant price volatility. Our policy is to enter into short-term commitments to purchase defined portions of annual consumption of these metals if market prices decline below budget. Israeli Operations We have substantial manufacturing operations in Israel, where we benefit from the governments grant and tax incentive programs. These programs have contributed substantially, predominantly in previous years, to our growth and profitability. The current benefits derived under these programs are not material to our consolidated results. Because of our significant presence in Israel, the availability of these incentive programs could have a significant positive effect on us if we relocate manufacturing capacity or develop new product lines there. However, there are no substantial plans that would allow us to earn additional benefits. Effective January 2011, the corporate tax rate in Israel decreased. We could be materially adversely affected if events were to occur in the Middle East that interfered with our operations in Israel. However, we have not experienced any material interruption in our Israeli operations during our 41 years of operations there, in spite of several Middle East crises, including wars. Inventory and Backlog We manufacture both standardized products and those designed and produced to meet customer specifications. We maintain an inventory of standardized components and monitor the backlog of outstanding orders for our products. 14 Contents   We include in our backlog only open orders that we expect to ship in the next twelve months. Many of our customers encounter uncertain and changing demand for their products. They typically order products from us based on their forecasts. If demand falls below customers forecasts, or if customers do not control their inventory effectively, they may cancel or reschedule the shipments included in our backlog, in many instances without the payment of any penalty. Therefore, our backlog at any point in time is not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for future periods. Customers and Marketing We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), electronic manufacturing services (EMS) companies, which manufacture for OEMs on an outsourcing basis, and independent distributors that maintain large inventories of electronic components for resale to OEMs and EMS companies. The distribution of sales by customer type for 2011 is shown below:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  Our sales organizations are regionally based. While our sales and support procedures are typically similar across all regions, we remain flexible in our ability to offer programs tailored to our customers specific support requirements in each local area. The aim of our sales organizations is supporting our customers across all product lines, developing new design wins, negotiating pricing and contracts, and providing general commercial support as would normally be expected of a large multi-national sales force. We have an established Strategic Global Account program, which provides each of our top customers with a dedicated Strategic Global Account Manager. Our Strategic Global Account Managers are typically highly experienced salesmen or saleswomen who are capable of providing key customers with the coordination and management visibility required in a complex multi-product business relationship. They typically coordinate the sales, pricing, contract, logistic, quality, and other aspects of the customers business requirements. The Strategic Global Account Manager normally is the focal point of communication between Vishay and our main customers. We maintain a similar program for our strategic distributors as well. We work with our customers so that our products are incorporated into the design of electronic equipment at the earliest stages of development and to provide technical and applications support. In addition to our staff of direct field sales personnel, independent manufacturers representatives, and distributors, our Business Development group maintains teams of dedicated Field Application Engineers (FAEs) to assist our customers in solving technical problems and in developing products to meet specific customer application needs using our entire product portfolio to provide support for our customers engineering needs. Organized by market segment, our Business Development FAEs bring specific knowledge of component applications in their areas of expertise in the automotive, telecommunications, computing, consumer/entertainment, industrial, peripherals, digital consumer, and other market segments. With the ultimate goal of a Vishay design-in  the process by which our customers specify a Vishay component in their products  this program offers our customers enhanced access to all Vishay technologies while at the same time increasing design wins, and ultimately sales, for us. Most importantly, the process is closely monitored via a proprietary database developed by our Business Development group. Our database captures specific design activities and allows for real-time measurement of new business potential for our management team. Our top 30 customers have been relatively stable despite not having long-term commitments to purchase our products. With selected customers, we have signed longer term (greater than one year) contracts for specific products. Net revenues from our top 30 customers represent approximately 70% of our total net revenues. No single customer comprises more than 10% of our total net revenues. In certain areas we also work with sales representatives. The commission expense for these sales representatives is not material. 15 Contents   Competition We face strong competition in various product lines from both domestic and foreign manufacturers. Our primary competitors by product type include:       MOSFETs: Fairchild Semiconductor, Infineon, International Rectifier, NXP Semiconductors, ON Semiconductor, Rohm, STMicroelectronics, Toshiba.          Diodes: Fairchild Semiconductor, Infineon, NXP Semiconductors, ON Semiconductor, Rohm, STMicroelectronics, Toshiba.          Optoelectronic Components: Avago, Rohm, Sharp, Toshiba.          Resistors and Inductors: KOA, Panasonic, Rohm, TDK-EPCOS, Yageo.          Capacitors: AVX, KEMET, Murata, Nichicon, Panasonic, TDK-EPCOS, Yageo.    There are many other companies that produce products in the markets in which we compete. Our competitive position depends on our ability to maintain a competitive advantage on the basis of product quality, know-how, proprietary data, market knowledge, service capability, technological innovation, business reputation, and price competitiveness. Our sales and marketing programs aim to compete by offering our customers a broad range of world-class technologies and products, superior global sales and distribution support, and a secure and multi-location source of product supply. Research and Development Many of our products and manufacturing techniques, technologies, and packaging methods have been invented, designed, and developed by Dr. Felix Zandman, our engineers, and our scientists. We maintain strategically placed design centers where proximity to customers enables us to more easily gauge and satisfy the needs of local markets. These design centers are located predominantly in the United States, Germany, Italy, Israel, the Peoples Republic of China, France, and the Republic of China (Taiwan). We also maintain research and development personnel and promote programs at a number of our production facilities to develop new products and new applications of existing products and to improve manufacturing processes and technologies. This decentralized system encourages product development at individual manufacturing facilities, closer to our customers. Patents and Licenses We have made a significant investment in securing intellectual property protection for our technology and products. We seek to protect our technology by, among other things, filing patent applications for technology considered important to the development of our business. We also rely upon trade secrets, unpatented know-how, continuing technological innovation, and the aggressive pursuit of licensing opportunities to help develop and maintain our competitive position. Our ability to compete effectively with other companies depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology. Although we have been awarded, have filed applications for, or have been licensed under, numerous patents in the United States and other countries, there can be no assurance concerning the degree of protection afforded by these patents or the likelihood that pending patents will be issued. 16 Contents   We require all of our technical, research and development, sales and marketing, and management employees and most consultants and other advisors to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of employment or consulting relationships with us. These agreements provide that all confidential information developed or made known to the entity or individual during the course of the entitys or individuals relationship with us is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances. Substantially all of our technical, research and development, sales and marketing, and management employees have entered into agreements providing for the assignment to us of rights to inventions made by them while employed by us. When we believe other companies are misappropriating our intellectual property rights, we vigorously enforce those rights through legal action, and we intend to continue to do so. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings. Although we have numerous United States and foreign patents covering certain of our products and manufacturing processes, no particular patent is considered individually material to our business. Environment, Health and Safety We have adopted an Environmental Health and Safety Corporate Policy that commits us to achieve and maintain compliance with applicable environmental laws, to promote proper management of hazardous materials for the safety of our employees and the protection of the environment, and to minimize the hazardous materials generated in the course of our operations. This policy is implemented with accountability directly to the Board of Directors. In addition, our manufacturing operations are subject to various federal, state, and local laws restricting discharge of materials into the environment. We are involved in environmental remediation programs at various sites currently or formerly owned by us and our subsidiaries both within and outside of the U.S., in addition to involvement as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at Superfund sites. Certain obligations as a PRP have arisen in connection with business acquisitions. The remediation programs are on-going and the ultimate cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings. We are not involved in any pending or threatened proceedings that would require curtailment of our operations. We continually expend funds to ensure that our facilities comply with applicable environmental regulations. While we believe that we are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, we cannot accurately predict future developments and do not necessarily have knowledge of all past occurrences on sites that we currently occupy. More stringent environmental regulations may be enacted in the future, and we cannot determine the modifications, if any, in our operations that any such future regulations might require, or the cost of compliance with such regulations. Moreover, the risk of environmental liability and remediation costs is inherent in the nature of our business and, therefore, there can be no assurance that material environmental costs, including remediation costs, will not arise in the future. With each acquisition, we attempt to identify potential environmental concerns and to minimize, or obtain indemnification for, the environmental matters we may be required to address. In addition, we establish reserves for specifically identified potential environmental liabilities. We believe that the reserves we have established are adequate. Nevertheless, we have in the past and may in the future inherit certain pre-existing environmental liabilities, generally based on successor liability doctrines. Although we have never been involved in any environmental matter that has had a material adverse impact on our overall operations, there can be no assurance that in connection with any past or future acquisition we will not be obligated to address environmental matters that could have a material adverse impact on our operations. 17 Contents   Employees As of December 31, 2011, we employed approximately 20,900 full time employees, of whom approximately 89% were located outside the United States. The recent acquisition of HiRel Systems adds approximately 1,000 full time employees, of whom approximately 75% are located outside of the United States. Our future success is substantially dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and administrative personnel. Some of our employees outside the United States are members of trade unions, and employees at one U.S. facility are represented by a trade union. Our relationship with our employees is generally good. However, no assurance can be given that, if we continue to restructure our operations and/or reduce employee hours in response to changing economic conditions, labor unrest or strikes will not occur. Company Information and Website We file annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at Station Place, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including us, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that we file with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. In addition, our company website can be found on the Internet at www.vishay.com. The website contains information about us and our operations. Copies of each of our filings with the SEC on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, and Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, can be viewed and downloaded free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports and amendments are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. To view the reports, access ir.vishay.com and click on SEC Filings. The following corporate governance related documents are also available on our website:       Corporate Governance Principles          Code of Business Conduct and Ethics          Code of Ethics Applicable to the Companys Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Principal Accounting Officer or Controller and Financial Managers          Audit Committee Charter          Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charter          Compensation Committee Charter          Strategic Affairs Committee Charter          Policy on Director Attendance at Annual Meetings          Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Policy Regarding Qualification of Directors          Procedures for Securityholders Submissions of Nominating Recommendations          Securityholder Communications with Directors and Interested Party Communication with Non-Management Directors          Whistleblower and Ethics Hotline Procedures          Related Party Transaction Policy    To view these documents, access ir.vishay.com and click on Corporate Governance. Any of the above documents can also be obtained in print by any stockholder upon request to our Investor Relations Department at the following address: Corporate Investor Relations Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. 63 Lancaster Avenue Malvern, PA 19355-2143 18 Contents     Item 1A.     RISK FACTORS